going to be actually it's 9 a.m. now uh well ted i think that uh you're asking which is she yang yang and which is le wrong grong um i don't know maybe somebody in the room knows but those you who are unfamiliar mock has tradition during its meetings of having a local sports mascot I had a lot of trouble on at least google images finding pictures of trends in sports mascots but this is from the the national games that were here uh two years ago it's 9 a m welcome to media over quick my name is martin duke i'm one of the chairs magnus had an urgent matter in stockholm he attended so i believe he's on an airplane right now so i will be flying solo today this meeting is being recorded as always this is the itf notewell you have probably seen it this week already several times but it covers the intellectual property implications of you being here as well as outlining the code of conduct expectations for participants please take a look at it if you have not done so already this is today's agenda um we we're hearing complaints about the audio oh yeah i was that was very bad sorry about not being able to hear me a moment ago uh i just talked about the note well and did the other um introductory stuff this is today's agenda we loaded all the security issues into tuesday session because um cfrg is right now and we didn't think we'd get much security of participation today here's what we're going to go through mostly we're going to cover some of the other drafts that are out there in the working group and then we're going to give about it 30 minutes to the editors to work on on mock t issues but anyone like to bash this agenda okay seeing no one i'm going to hand it over to mike english we'll talk about the hackathon report this time will be brief there was some hackathon activity things are mainly focused right now on kind of getting things into the automated interop test runner and so we're still kind of working through some issues with making all the Docker images can build and you know the right versions are assigned to the right implementations and things like that let me very briefly Let's see if I can share my screen. I'm able to select what to share here. Oh, that's the problem. Okay. I just now understood the interface. Magnus always did that. Go ahead, Mike. Gotcha. Okay. One moment. Let me share this Chrome tab. Okay, so this is a current view of the interop test runner. So Englishm.git hub.io slash mock dash interop dash runner. And we'll bring you to the top level page where you can see a variety of test runs. And then within those, you can see different relay implementations matched up with different client implementations and the results of those pairings. It's designed to be aware of what versions each implementation supports. And you can see these little superscripts indicating the expected version that would have been negotiated. So you can see we have kind of mixed results here right now. Some of this is not actual failures of the MockT protocol so much as, you know, test runner issues that we're still kind of working out the kinks for. Each of these will bring you, you know, if you go to one of these results, you can see detailed log. You can zoom in a little bit. That's completely legible. Uh-oh. How far don't you zoom in? That's a little better. Not great, but better. Okay. Yeah, so this is what the test results look like. You can see we have some defined test cases. The output is formatted. So there's kind of a standard output that a test client supports. And each of these test cases is defined as a, is defined as a specification that lives in the specification that lives in the the repository. So right now, we just have a handful of specifications for setup exchange, making an announcement, expecting to receive a subscribe error if a track does not exist, et cetera. And we intend to grow this list. So as people come up with additional tests that they would like to perform, we can add more specifications and test clients can implement to the specifications. That way we have a diversity of implementations, implementing the same behavior, so that we can kind of have the spec be the guiding principle and implementations of the specification, you know, yielding results in interrupt. I have one. I know that we talked about maybe sitting on draft 16 for a while. I've heard some feedback that maybe we wanted to get all the very significant changes in 17 and 18 implemented sooner rather than later. I don't know how your thinking is involved on that or if any would like to approach the mic to state an opinion about how long we sit on 16. either as an implementer or not. Yeah, I would love to hear feedback on that. Alan, go ahead. Okay, maybe you can hear me now. Yes. Okay, now you can see me here. There we go. Here I am. Yeah, my thought is we have, we will. So 17 is out. Some people have implemented it. There's a lot there, especially if you're going to try to support both versions in one implementation, because it's quite different. So I mean, I know I've started poking around at it. In terms of when we roll to actually ask everyone to move the interrupt target, my thinking is we'll do that in 18, which I'm targeting in about four weeks before the June interim, so like about two months from now. And I kind of hope that like, whatever. remaining wire image shuffling that we're planning to do will finish. And so after 18, like, you know, people, if you look at the drafts that are coming in that people want to merge into the core, a lot of them are adding new parameters and adding new relay behaviors but are not changing like sort of the core framing and stuff. So anyway, that's my thinking. So move, we'll move that will move to 18 starting eight weeks from now and skip 17, except people who want. Mike, can you start a conversation on the list about this? But what I'm hearing is maybe we target 18 for London, the London interop. But again, can you take the action item to get a discussion on the list going? Yep, I will do that. I see in the chat also, Victor, expressing a preference for 17 slash 18 sooner, since supporting 16 and 17 is a lot of pain. Um, we happen to be, uh, so as you can see, we have two implementations here, mock RS and mock RS draft 16. So we actually make a hard break each time, um, but I know that some implementations support multiple versions at once and the changes, um, between some of these drafts are significant, uh, to kind of carry both, both at once. Um, I see plus one for 18 London. I'll take it to the list and we'll get more input. Thank you, Mike. All right, moving on. Next up is, uh, Ming Hui, who's going to talk about, I'm part, pardon me, Will, just going to talk about MSF and CMSF. Yes. Is it? Mike test. Okay. Bring the slides up. Thank you. Good morning, Will Law Akamai. I'm going to cover a very brief and fast update on our streaming formats, MSF and CMSF. So if you're one of the people wondering alone, how am I going to actually stream video over mock transport? You're not alone. We held a brainstorming meeting in Boulder in the United States of people who were interested in MSF and CMSF to raise a lot of issues, which we bring back to IATF. It was very successful. So there are a lot of people. there, some are in the room today. But I just encourage you to join this community of people who are interested in MSF and CMSF, because the more input we get, the better it is. And as a consequence of this meeting, we've had a flurry of PRs, and I want to particularly call out Suhuss, who's contributed a lot to MSF in the last two months. Thank you, Suhuss. So let's go through some of the major changes. The first one is our rename is complete. So you may have heard of the streaming format referred to as Warp. That has now been changed to MSF, which formally stands for MOQT streaming format. It is what the name on the can is what's inside, but we mostly just call us MSF. And then what used to be called CARP, which is the CMF compliant MRQT streaming format, is now called CMSF. And I'll only refer to them by their acronyms going forward. And remember that CMSF is basically everything that's inside MSF, with the addition of CMath support. One of the things we merged was a take on the URL format. We're still debating this, but at the Boulder interim, we decided to go with a fragment-based scheme, which I'm describing here. And this is being done in parallel. These are not my latest slides, unfortunately, because anyway, it doesn't matter. The MOQT, Alan presented yesterday. this is probably going to be our schema and the portion in blue of the URL is transferred over to the server. The fragment is intended for the client and it communicates the namespace and the name space and the name that it's going to connect. And in our case, we mostly want to connect to a catalog so we can describe the catalog there. And we also, within MSF, define a key value schema for the fragment so that we can pass additional key value. pairs or parameters, fragment parameters, to the client. And some of these are predefined. The table in the bottom right shows some of the parameters that we've defined so that you can identify a subclip in your content. Just yesterday or the day before, Alan proposed that the fragment has a prefix that identifies the streaming format. So the fragment would be hash MSF colon. I quite like this idea. I'll support it and hopefully we can move forward with that. We have a pretty universal descriptor then. You can look at any URL and you can know what streaming format it represents. We also added support for variable substitution. This is pretty important. We want our catalogs to be cashable in a relay. If we have a million people watching a stream, we want to give them all the same catalog, but at the same time, we want to give them custom advertising. So how would we do that? And one of the ways we do that is we can put key value parameters in our fragment. So the URL that is vended by the content management system will generate unique IDs for every user. And these can then be easily substituted into the catalog. So simply we use percent character as the designator of our variable substitution, and we replace them in just prior to passing the catalog. And this, I think, gives us a flexibility to support customization, but at the same time allowing us to cache the catalogs in our edge relays. We're also supporting an encryption scheme. This is mock secure objects. I referenced there. It's a draft. And this is not DRM, right? This is end-to-end encryption of mock objects. So if you don't want your distribution provider being able to view or read your content, you want to encrypt it. And it's very simply in the catalog on the right-hand side. In yellow, we see some new keys that have been added to each of the track descriptors in order to communicate secure objects and the information that's necessary for the client to decrypt them. We've also defined a template for the media timeline track. So as a reminder, the media timeline is a description of the history in a live stream. So if you only want to play the media timeline track. So if you only want to play the live edge of a live stream. You don't care about the media timeline track and you never subscribe to it. But if you're a client, say it's a sports game and you want to scrub back into the past, you need to understand which groups and IDs or media time to go to. So we defined a very simple JSON structure, which the original publisher produces as it's encoding the audio and the video. But it can get quite verbose, right? It's an example shown on the right. For the use case of fixed duration groups, which are quite common in many distributions, we can apply a very simple compression scheme and collapse that timeline JSON list into a single template, which is shown on the left. So the template on the left is equivalent to the data on the right, and it takes advantage of the fact that we have fixed duration gops and fixed duration groups. But I think this will be a use case that's quite common, and now we have an efficient way of describing it. Now I'm getting into some PRs that are still open for discussion. They have not been merged. And I don't think we have enough time in this talk to actually debate these. There's some topics, but I just want to highlight them so you can go to the issue and add your opinion. The first one is what's called zapping, right? But the bigger picture here is we want to be able to start a stream very quickly and also switch in and out of that track very quickly in order to support stable playback at very low latency. One way to do that is to produce two variants of every track, one that has more dense keyframes than the other one. So A has a keyframe every three objects, and in B, it's every six objects. And it turns out that we can, with a single number, which is essentially the number of objects between keyframes, and a simple formula which is described here. We call this the keyframe spacing parameter. The client can then figure out how to jump between the two tracks. And this allows it to start quickly and also switch out of trouble if it needs to. The downside of this schema is you've got two tracks for every track that you would have without it. But I think for streams that are being viewed by lots of people, having actually two egress streams is a de minimis consequence of having much faster joint times and switch times. So please look at this PR and if you like it, you can comment. Another one is PR 121. Publishing tracks for logs and metrics. So the beautiful thing with Mark, it's a bidirectional protocol, right? We are using, we always think of using it as the player is just subscribing to audio and video content. But the player can also publish logs and it can publish QOE data, which today we typically beacon out to a third party. But now, In our catalog, we can tell every client, I want you to publish tracks yourself. And we can tell it the namespace and the name that it should publish too. We can tell it the format it should produce, such as a mock metrics track. And we can even give it a token that it can use to give it permission to publish this into the network. So we've, there's examples shown on the right to show publishing both mock logs and mock metrics. And I think this would be a nice differentiator for mock media compared to segmented adaptive media where we have to beacon out through a different return part. Another PR for discussion 141 adding support for init tracks. So we try to simplify our communication of the initialization data that the client needs to start decoding the content by just putting it as base 64 and sticking it directly into catalog. And this works. However, it works as long as it's static for the life of the stream. But use cases were introduced saying, hey, in the middle of a, say, a long-running stream, we want to change the size. We need to supply a different init data. And for that purpose, we can use a track. And it's very simple. The client subscribes to the init tracks. And it can get the init at the beginning. And then if you want to change it or update it at an arbitrary time, you get the new data in that track. And there's a mechanism shown on the right. We can just declare the init track as one of the tracks, and then we can reference it in another track that will use it for initialization. I see Mo for clarifying question. Not clevering, but Loak has a mechanism to do the parameter set updates as well. Oh. Without catalog as a property, track property or object property. Okay. Very cool. Thank you. Yeah, we should actually look at, do we want init data supplied as a, there's a track or even object property, because that would allow us to inject it at certain points. Okay. So that's a good idea. So maybe can you comment on 141 and just say, I'm not saying we shouldn't have a knit tracks. It's just we might want init tracks and in a catalog and properties, and they all work. Okay, another PR 133. We want to add standards that are highly, you know, highly common in media, which is Scuddy 35 markers for. add insertion availability, as well as embedded captions, 608, 708, as well as external captions, right, IMSC1 and WebBTT. So the first thing we've done here is a proposal for transmission of Scuddy 35 data. So we have a track definition on the left hand side in yellow that say, hey, I'm a Scuddy 35 track. And the nice thing is with MOC, we can decouple the transmission of this data from the audio and video data. And we use the Depends attribute to link this Scuddy 35 to the tracks that it's referencing. And on the right-hand side is a proposed payload. We have an event timeline structure, and this is Scuddy 35 using the event timeline structure. I think it's a very neat and easy to understand scheme, and hopefully we can bring this to fruition. This is part of 133. The next thing we're looking at is out-of-band captions. How do we transmit WebBT and IMSC1. Question is, do we still want both, or can we just standardize on IMSC1? On the right, again, we have a proposal for how we would map WebBT data to our event timeline payload construct. So we're under five minutes. Yeah, yeah. I'm... We've time for discussion. Okay. And then the last of this data is embedded captions, 6.08-708, so you see in the track description on the right-hand side. We have an accessibility field. Within that, we have a schema says this is 608, and then we've got some value attributes for that schema. This is extensible for other types of accessibility as well, because we do need to be compliant with accessibility requirements for broadcast media. We've also have another PR-118. Again, thanks to Suhus. This is for how do you. This is for how do we communicate our the requirement the for auth info we have two schemes that we support privacy pass and common access token and how can we tell the player hey you need to supply one of these tokens for this track that's a very simple scheme we have a key called orth info and inside that we have enumerated fields and they can either be cat or privacy pass and then i'm using the variable substitution to actually define the token that the player should use when it subscribes to this track. I think this is a pretty simple scheme. Please comment on 118. And that was the end. I'm actually three minutes early. Are there any questions? I can't see the online queue, but. Benjamin. Although it doesn't look like me to echo is muting you. So I think it's a different audio issue. When how, why don't you go while Benjamin figures out his audio? Yeah. So my question is about the pop track for the log and the metrics. I want to clarify the purpose of this track is for just for recording the log, logging information, or it's for the server-based ABR. it's not for a br the idea here was that if i have a player that's having a problem for example i can instruct the player to start sending me its logs because i want to debug its performance i don't envision most distribution schemes want to get logs all the time from players and maybe we have a scheme where the verbosity is adjusted so the player only sends error logs to a central collector so that you can monitor a fleet of players and and know which ones are having errors. That would be an example of the logging. But it's flexible, and maybe we should define different types of log and the conditions under which we might want to report data from the player. Okay, thank you. Benjamin, you want to try again? Hi. Okay, so can we go to flight 14? Yeah. So on slide 14, you were talking about authorization. Yeah. I find this a little puzzling. This is related to a discussion that came up in the last session, but I think the, I don't really understand the idea of authorizing to receive a track. The track is it can be encrypted. And if you want to authorize people to receive it, you can just give them the keys or not to decrypt it. I think that what we're authorizing here is not the content of the track, which can't really be controlled, it can be copied. So I think what we're authorizing here is actually access to the relay, to the relay network. We're authorizing access to the subscription message. So the clients can connect to a mock server, but then what can it do once it's connected? And we want to constrain what it can subscribe to. So certain tracks will have requirements that you must pass a token that gives you permission to even request it to subscribe to it. Then content's not encrypted, but we're just controlling access to it from the client. So I want to understand what it is that we're controlling access to and why. It sounds like maybe the answer is that we're controlling access to the resources required to redistribute that track and that there's we need to know who to basically who to bill for that. Is there one relay with serving multiple customers? All right. We're going to take this offline. Okay. Yeah, Benjamin message me. The use case here is basically CDNs and content distribution where you have, you have a large edge and you don't want to have uncontrolled access to that CDN edge. You want to hand tokens to people who have permission to come. and request the asset from the distribution network. Right. So conventionally, no. Take it offline. Take it offline. Ciao. Briefly, please. Oh. I saw the video in need tracked I did. And since tracks the first class citizen in the MSF. And the question is, are there are any principles? principles for us to decide when to add new tracks to MSP. I just want to understand the question. When do we add new tracks to the catalog or to what? Yeah, to the catalog. It's up to the publisher. Normally, it depends on your use case. If you're a live sports event, you will start producing audio and video for one camera. And you may never. change the tracks that you produce until the end. However, maybe midway through the sports event, you have an overhead camera and you want to, that's now available. You can update the catalog to describe the availability of the new tracks. So the catalog only gets updated when track availability or attributes change. And there's no requirement to update it if nothing is changing. change. I think I meant when we decide to add new tracks, like for the innate, I mean, the video unique track. Yeah. I think we added a video unique track this time, right? There's a PR for that. And how can we decide whether or not to add a new track or to leverage the existing track for for transferring or in the segments? Yeah, yeah. So you would first of all decide how you want to communicate you in knit segments. We have three proposed ways to do it in the catalog as base 64 as an init track or as an object property. So you decide which one you want to use. And then the next question is, how often is that in it's going to change? If it's static for the life of the stream, which is most media, then you would only define it once whether it's in a track or in a track property or in the catalog. But if it's going to change midway through the track, then you can't put it as base 60. Well, you could put it as base 64 in the catalog and just update the catalog. So all three mechanisms have the ability for mid-track initialization changes. And it's you have the freedom to choose which one is more convenient for you. Oh, I see. So we're- Okay, no, I'm sorry. We're out of time. We have to take this offline. Thank you. Thanks, Will. Okay. There's been a productive thing in the Zulip about privacy, so you should take a look at that. Ming Hui, go ahead. Martin, can you hear me? Yes, sir. Can you share my sliders? You did not submit slides? You did not submit slides, did you? Oh, yes, you did. Sorry. There you go. Yeah, thanks. Hi, everyone. I'm Jiangminghui from the Xquake Dave group. Today I will share our MOQ production experience at Alibaba Group and introduce our some new ideas. Okay, next slide. We have employed MOQ in some production scenarios, top of voice search. cloud rendering game, Taubo Live, Digital Human, and AliPay AI assistance. We are also integrating MOQ into A app and Queen App and some new scenarios. Next slide. Okay. Why we choose MOQ instead of WebSocket or WebRTC? In short, quick have nice Niceer performance quick give us no hit-of-line blocking, zero RTT, blankball, CC, and MOQ as flexible, medium-level abstraction on the top. Okay, next slide. In the scenarios of top-of-voice search, MOQ versus web circuit, connection latency reduced. latency reduced by 75% on the Android and 64 reduced on iOS. Next slide. In other scenarios, cloud rendering digital human MOQ versus WebRTC. The first frame, P19 latency cut by over 50%. Next slide. And in AliPay, AI assistance, over 50% reduction in both connection latency and average interaction delay, compiled to the traditional WebRTC pipeline. Next slide. Yeah. After doing X-Quick with GCCC MOQ and WebRTC show almost the same latency about 107 versus 104 milliseconds. CC and at the transport layer works well, but CC alone is not enough for us. The sender still needs feedback from the application layer to adapt media quality. quality. This is the motivation for our new draft. Next slide. Now our MOQ implementation is open source. Click on GitHub. We have participated in the MOQ interrope runner with draft 14 and draft 5 is is stably running in the rear production and the draft 16 is also working in progress. Next slide. Okay. This slide shows the gap. On the left, transport layer feedback only sees the packet. And on the right side, we want to know more information like delivery, status, arrival, timing, and buffer level. This is the information from the application layer. This is what we are currently missing in the MOQ. Next slide. Okay. Why does feedback from applications? From application layer improved performance, if there is no feedback, the sender keeps sending at the max bitrate. When the network gets worse, it leads the series stalling. With feedback, the receiver tells the sender what is happening in the network. And the sender reduced the bit rate to match the network condition, stalling goes away. going goes away. Okay, next night. We have due some experiments to validate our thoughts. We run some controlled experiments with video streaming to validate this. Both groups, you can see this slide to know the whole experience pipeline. Both groups use MOQ, but the only difference is whether use feedback or not. Thanks to the NTRTC from the ENT group for contributing this experience. Okay, next slide. We have a question from Mo. A clarifying question. When you say feedback, do you mean end-to-end feedback from the original publisher all the way to the end subscriber, or do you just mean? by hot feedback on one single quick connection? What kind of feedback? Very source to the very end or just on one connection? From the source to the end, from source to the end. All the way, okay. The next slide, next slide. Yeah, thanks. Okay, this slide shows our test of data data under different bandwidth limits. The feedback group always shows higher FPS and much lower store rates. You can see the details on this slide to know our experience. Okay, next slide. Okay. This experience tests our feedback draft in the packet-lose scenarios. At the 50% pack loose, the max frame interval drops from about three seconds to under one second. The worst network, the more feedback helps to improve performance. Okay, next slide. Another experiment we test is we try to try to try to improve the performance of the AI inference of audio generation. You can see this slide that you know the whole pipeline of this experiment. In this case, the upstream source is AI inference, like you can see VLM and the MLQ server. Okay. In this experiment, the MOQ client sends delivery feedback to the MOQ server, which can sign the inference pipeline to switch different video generation quality, like you can switch between the high quality, medium quality, or the low quality levels. Then the inference can output different different video generation generation. video generation quality. Next slide. Okay. In this experiment, we have two key findings. In good network condition feedback at zero overhead, but in the bad conditions, 80 milliseconds delay plus 5% packet loss feedback feedback give us 33 higher efficiency. higher FPS and 33 fewer stores. Next slide. Yeah. So we propose draft MOQ multi-modal feedback this draft. This key design is to add a new MOQ feedback track to carry real-time feedback reports. It provides more information about per per object, delivery, status, reserve, timestamp, data, and optional matrix like playback, buffer, heat rooms, or something else. It serves both the application and the CC algorithms. Here's slide. Okay. You can see this is the whole. whole loop of our feedback draft. This is straightforward. You can see the receiver reports, object, status, and the buffer level, while feedback track. The sender use it in the two directions. Upward, the application layer, adjust the bit rate, resolution, or some inference parameters like CFT or something else, trunk size, yes. On the downward, the CC algorithms gives extra signal like loss rate and buffer level, and then do some adjustment. This forms a closed-the-loop. Next slide. Okay. Our new drafter can work. You draft can work with other extending draft like a quick receive time stamp. We hope this draft can bridge the information gap with the transport layer and the application layer. Next slide. Okay, this is summarize. To summarize, we shared. our MOQ production experience and experiment data at Alibaba. And we proposed MOQ multi-modal feedback to add application layer feedback. There are still some open questions listed in this slide. We look forward to your feedback and discussion. You can also contact us via email and email. Zach. Okay. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks, Martin. Yes. Thank you, Ming Hui, for being on time. Good presentation. I do want to say as Chair, that with the way we're doing things these days, if you're interested in this feature and think it should be in Mach, the best thing you can do is start contributing to their GitHub on that or commenting on that draft and most importantly implementing it. If we get interop on things, it's more likely to make it the standard. With that, I'm going to close the queue quite soon, so enter it if you want to be, and if people can be brief, that's great. Great, Mo. This is interesting. I think a lot of us feel that there will be need for app level feedback. The challenge, though, is in Mock. It's inherently wanting to be large fan out, large distribution. So in your testing, have you tried many different subscribers giving feedback to a single sender, single publisher, or are you aggregating the feedback in any kind of way? No, we just the primary test on this. on this draft we only use the single client and a single server but we can you know we can supply more more scenarios of this on this structure yeah so thanks jahed so i kind of like asking the same question perhaps the thing is like you have a receiver side and I'm expecting you have a center side bandwidth estimator as well. And my two, I have two questions. One is basically, how do you, on the receiver side, how do you do the bandwidth estimation? And in the server side, a center side, how do you like put all the estimations together from different clients and like what more was asking? But how do you do receiver side estimator? Let's focus on that one. If you go to the previous slide, you have something called, you're sending receiver side bandwidth estimation. One more perhaps. One more back. Yeah, estimated bandwidth. Receiver reports, estimated bandwidth. How you're calculating that? Okay. Okay. We have integrating the quick receiver time stamps. stamp this structure to to know some transport layer information. Yeah. So we can know the real-time network condition and then we have a policy to estimate the real-time beat rate. Yeah, and decide the policy. Yeah. So I would like to understand a bit more, but maybe I'll talk to you later. Thank you so ahead. Victor. Yeah, you can talk to me later. Yeah. Victor Vasily of Google. We, in our implementation, we have a feature which is similar to this. The key differences is that we don't put it on a track. We do it as a hot. by hub extension and the second difference is that, is the format, our format is we only send positive acknowledgments and we only send the time delta between the expected receive time and the actual receive time. So for a long while I was trying to, we've never submitted this as a draft, but I do wonder if we can somehow figure out if what we implemented is that is compatible with what's in that draft and whether we can converge. Yeah, we can do more connections after the meeting. Yeah. Victor, I think writing something down would be helpful. Alan. Yeah, thank you so much for presenting this, bringing his work. I think it's great. I'd love to hear at some point, like what you're, when you say deployed scale, like this may be for all. This may be for all I know the biggest mock deployment in the world, so we'd love to hear some of the numbers. But I'm curious if you can roll all the way back toward the beginning of your presentation, if you could just talk a little bit more about the application use case scenarios that you had there. I'm particularly curious about kind of the one you mentioned, which was like user to computer, or human to computer AI, because that's another area that I think, like mock could be a very good fit. Just explain kind of what the, a little bit more about the application is that you're using. Okay. We observed some new video generation. They need the real time in display. Yeah. So you have the latency is the key. And they need to the higher FPS and the lower end-to-to-end latency. and latency. So when you have the, when you have the network, network condition difference, you need to know this change, this change in the network condition quickly. So we have to adjust the inference framework parameters quickly. quickly between the in the one single one single request or between the different request so so it can I think I get that part I was sort of asking like one higher level like what is the is the application like I talked to my agent and I'm like generate me some video and so it's it's like dynamically generating video on the fly and streaming it back to me is that the use case oh yeah yeah yeah yeah just Thank you. Okay, thank you, Inouye. Once again, a nice presentation and good job writing up in a draft. That is the right way to propose changes at this point to the protocol. Okay, Suhas, you're up. Hi everyone, Martin, I'm not seeing my decade. Maybe there's lag. Okay, I can see that one. Hi, I'll be talking about why we want to do mock or QMux. QMux is a new draft or new work that Quick Working Group has taken up. This presentation is basically trying to say why do you want to run mock or when do you want to run mock or TCP, especially when Quick or UDP is unavailable for whatever reason. And we know QMux is basically a multiplexing layer that provides quick like stream abstractions or TCP. TLS. Next slide, please. You have slide control. Cool, cool. Thanks. The idea here is that Mock is designed to work with Quick and which runs over UDP. But there are certain scenarios where UDP or Quick might not work. Like UDP is less, quick is more blocked than UDP in general, but some of these cases like enterprise firewalls or mobile carrier restrictions, some middle boxes can drop the UDP package. drop the UDP packets because they would not want to support it. Or there can be some rate limiting scenarios. In all these cases, we might not have a mock or quick just work. And without a TCP fallback, mock applications simply won't work in these environments. And this limits kind of adoption and reach of mock-based application, especially in the enterprise and some of the examples I kind of talked about. And we need kind of way to support something that would allow this to happen. allow this to happen. So the proposal here is that we want to run QMux as in a layer that's over which the mock is running. And QMux kind of provides a multiplex and it sits between your mock application and your TCPTL stack. The main thing here is that QMX is kind of a polyfill which provides a notion, a notion for bi-directional streams for control messages. unidirectional streams in mock, for example, for data delivery, and a kind of transport parameters to configure your connection, which you do the way you would do in quick and also flow control through some parameters like max data frames. The key insight here is that the applications that coded against quick APS work unchanged. This would be critical so that we have one code base that can work where in UDP-friendly and quick-friendly environments as well as not so friendly environments. I think this kind of summary, I'll just go skip on this one. One thing I'd like to say on this slide is that even there are good benefits of running mock or quick, but we also need to kind of understand that there are some tradeoffs as well, which is head of line blocking. The nice thing of quick is that you have parallelism with streams. That will go away. Again, we have been doing a lot of work within the the mock working group to reduce the amount of RTTs that we need to do, but if you go to the QMux, it will increase the RTTs. It might add additional to RTTs compared to how we would set up using just or quick. And we lose some of the good features of quick, like connection, migration, those things. We need to keep that in mind, but the idea here is that you'll have, probably it'll end up not being able to send anything versus with some penalty. You're able to have the mock application work is what the goal. What's the goal here? And if we do mock over quick QMUX, how we basically take the, there's an easy mapping. We have the request streams, which we use the bidirection streams in QMX, and we have unidirection streams for data, which is what we use for sending as data streams, and for all the for all the control stream data, which is for setup messages, it would be extreme number zero. and anything you want to do with the flow control and other things we have these parameters that talks about how do you want per connection level max amount of data that you can send and per for stream level you have maximum stream data parameter and also to do the flow control on the number of streams you have a max stream parameters so basically what you're saying is that there's quite a bit of direct one-on-one mapping between how we want to use more over your normal quick versus QMax so there's not much kind of you know an application is to change to support QMX and underneath. Having said, you know, how QMX works and why it might be helpful, the challenge comes here is that like when you want to use mock or QMX or mock can run or quick or it can run or web transport and it can, we can have different mock versions and we can have different QMux versions. What is how, how does the client and server identify each other when they're running? Currently, the draft specifies straightforward, simple, idea which is like we don't care. At the MOC application layer, we just use the MOC ALPN, like MOX 16 or MOC 17 that identify as a draft version. The client basically sends the client hello message with this ALPN and if the server is fine, they, if it's a QMux based server, basically, they do establish QX transport parameters. That's how you know that there's the QQMUQMX being set and once the QMX session setup works, you end up setting like a mock session is ready. Here the thing is that, yes, you need to kind of establish a TCP or TLS connection to see if the other side is QMX or not. And we need to kind of figure out what kind of happy highballs things you would want to do to not reduce your connection set up latency, something like should we do both your UDP as well as your TCP in parallel and once something gets connected, wait for a while before you totally give up on that. attempt on other other ones. But so those are some of the things kind of we need to think about and provide recommendations for someone who would want to use more core QMUmax. Let me skip this slide. But there is an alternative proposal here which is basically inspired, but the problem with the previous ALPN proposal is that it does not let you an example. anything over the QMax. It assumes somehow the QMX works magically if the server and clients are on different versions, it might just fail. To kind of alleviate the problem, one, we have two alternate proposals here. These are not in the draft, but this came over discussion with a few folks around. The first proposal is kind of how web transport you kind of upgrades itself to, from H3 ALPN to the next level saying these are the available protocols. that I would like to use and say which mock version you use. Why don't we kind of bring the same design to the QMX negotiation as well? So what this basically says is that at the TLS layer, if you're running mock or QMux, at the TLS layer, you say, I support QMX version 1. And in the next available protocols in the QX parameters, you say, oh, I support MOX 16 and 17. That's so you can know that you're supporting QMX 1 and MOX 16 or 17. In the same way you're doing it over web transport, you start with a TLS layer, your QMUmax, and at the next available protocols, it will be H3. From H3, the next WT available protocols will say what more question you are using. This kind of is inspired by the web transport design. Rowan, I have one more slide and I'll get back to you if that's okay. And on the other hand, the other way to solve the same ALPN problem is that you can define one ALPN problem is that you can define one ALPN at the TLS that kind of of has combination of the mock version and the QMux version. This kind of provides you a way to say, my TLS layer, ALPN to kind of clearly identify what mock and the mock question, QMX version that you support. But it can have a version explosion explosion, especially when we are in the draft versions. Maybe once we are standardized, it might not be a problem, but you still have this problem of portion explosion here. Then I can skip this one. Okay, the question to the group is that what does people think about having to work on this draft and invite people to kind of help make this happen? And we have seen some early deployments. Usually the challenge with early deployments is that the private deployments, they kind of go do it. And when ITF proposes something, it becomes really hard to kind of change. So we kind of need to do something early so that we kind of need to do something early so that we can give recommendations to the implementers who are doing mock or QMux to kind of say, how do we support this application? Yeah, open questions, please. All right, I had to lock the queue because who else did not leave a lot of time for comments? So most of you are not going to make it, but Rohan, go ahead. Hi, Rowan May. So apologies that I've not been super closely following this, but so I'm an implementer. I want to be able to make sure that some some mock traffic gets over it's only going to be able to go over TCP 4443. Why would I want to use QMux instead of web transport with HTTP 2? Oh, web transport or HTTP 2 should be totally fine. If that's, I don't think so, this would avoid if that's your deployment. But that also requires you to have HTTP 2 server on the other side. But if the QMux is the deployment you have on the server side, this will give an actual way to move to that. Got it. Thank you. Thanks, So a couple things. One, I think that we're going to, there's probably been more talk about how to do QMUX version negotiation in the quick session, so probably you should come there. I think I'm firmly on team. There's only a mock TALPN and it tells you what QMX version you're running rather than having multiple layers. Also, I think most of what Most of what's in this draft could probably be consolidated into the mock T draft into a very short amount of text, which just explains that we're going to use Mach 2. You can use Mach 2 over QMux and how you do that. Clear the timing there, since we don't know if QMUX is going to finish before we will or if we want to reference it normally, or if we would need to have a separate draft that says how to do that if the ordering goes mock T then QMUX, then mock T over QMU. Perfect. Anyway. Sounds good. Thank you. Okay. many people were in the queue and didn't get an opportunity. Please use Zulip or the list or contact Suhaz directly. The next stuff is Mo, who's going to talk about LOC? I'll try to catch us back up. This should be relatively simple. Wait a minute, sorry. Yes. This is the lock media format, overhead container. The changes in version 02, there were some editorial, large editorial, but there was peppered everywhere. Extensions were changed to properties to align with Machi, and variants were replaced with the new VI 64 variant. Oh, this is the old version. This is not the one that you uploaded. There's a lag in data track. I approve slides. It doesn't show up. Sorry. Okay. I'll try to remember the changes. All right. So the major substantive change was moving the metadata location. We had an agreement to move most of the metadata into the mock pay so that it's opaque to the relays. However, in the next slide, we'll discuss that a little bit more detail why there's actually a split now between two sets of properties, public and private, one that lives in the payload, one that lives in the mock header. We added a time scale property. It was called time base before, but we were reading the time scale to align with some other APIs. To give the scale of the timestamps, we removed the capture semantics from timestamps, because you can use it for presentation or anything else, retain start codes, and we had a lot of information about secure objects integration and security considerations. Okay, so the big change was moving metadata from the mock header extensions into the mock payload. So this is the old version. The mock header extensions map directly to the locke header extensions, and the mock payload mapped directly to the loch header extensions. And the mock payload mapped directly to the loch payload. So it was a nice. clean, simple mapping, and both of the payloads were the exact bytes that you get out of the encoded audio video chunks from WebCodex. When we move to in O2, there are still some loch public properties that are a subset of the mock header properties, but the majority of them are expected to be in the lock private properties, which now live in the mock payload. payload and the lock payload follows its private properties. So now you have the mock payload not being the exact encoded audio video chunk anymore, but it's both private properties and the payload. So there's some discussion on that. If people want to look at the issue, there's a little bit more detail in there about why that split was necessary, and which specific properties we think can be private or public. The timescale is very straightforward. It's a new property that just provides the denominator of the timestamp. So 40,000 for audio, typically 90,000 for video. If you don't specify it, we default back to the original interpretation, which is microseconds. It could be on the track or individual objects can override it. can override it. The open issues, the major one, Colin already addressed yesterday, the track properties that can't be authenticated or encrypted. There needs to be a solution to that, probably in secure objects, and then Locke will just follow that solution. There's some editorial things about registry collisions, we'll clean that up. Luke brought up a question about lock outside of Mach. I thought we We agreed that that was out of scope, but if anybody has a different view or opinion, please chime in on that issue. Again, registry editorial things, web codex long lingering issue. And finally, last night, we realized why people have grief when you encode a var-it with not minimal encoding. So that's what we were doing with the frame marking extension, and that caused some confusion. So maybe we'll revert that and just do explicit lengths and not try to overload the VI 64 and keep it minimal length. All right, that's it. That's just, well done, sir. Anyone in the queue? All right, let's move right into, um, there's like six clicks to make. Give me a second. Let's grab. We're going to move right into the filters discussion. Let me make sure this is the updated one. It's version one. It's version one. You don't have slide control yet. I think they give it back to you. You could. Well, I gave you slide. So there's 13 slides. Okay, that's the right upload. There's nothing to be done. There's nothing to be done. anyway because mea echo is not sinking okay yeah this is this is the right one okay so filters this is a new PR 1518 the old PR 1401 was much larger and the feedback was try to reduce the scope make it more manageable to merge so we did the major changes in bold there removing the location filters and the group filters so we already have filters in the current mock T, the subscription filters. We renamed them to subscription location filters. And of course, the Ford flag is also basically a filter. So we already have some versions of filters. This adds the new range filters and the track filter. We also simplified some things by removing some of the parameters. Max tracks deselected and the equivalent of it for the setup option and the parameter option. We improved the wire encoding, some delta encoding enthusiasts got a hold of it. And we clarified a lot of the interactions between other parts of the spec, like how to manage subgroup closing and things like that. So setup options, we removed one of them, and the only thing that's left now is max filter ranges. And that's changed to be a total across all ranges and all parameters used to be for each individual filter type now it's across all filters max track selected is still the same we removed these selected the range filters the major change here was adding and sets so the range filters again they were reduced to only these four we removed the group filter and the location filter And we added this AN set to all of these four. The AN set allows you to basically do and or combinations of all of these filters. Before the design team didn't want the full complexity of and or sets, but then some other issues came up later where relays that aggregate these subscriptions need to be able to express and or sets. Even if a client doesn't have to express it, the relays end up having to express that to avoid some vectors to avoid pulling in too many objects because then it can express the filter succinctly. And it's actually a really simple change, not much text at all. You have this parameter AN set, this value AN set in every parameter and set and for the same values of ANSET, you and all of those in that same set, and then you OR all of those groups of ANSETs at the very end. So it's a very simple, Alan, you have a question? Sorry, there's an AV lag here. So to be clear, before these were single value parameters, because there was never a need to express, you wouldn't have subgroup filter twice in the same block because it was just an oar of everything, so having two of them didn't need anything. But now you, now they're multi-valued. So I have every distinct, maybe you can explain. So the echo appears is horrible. Do you understand my question? Well, yeah, the echo is bad at the front here. Well, it's already gone past the scroll there. He was asking about, can you repeat it quickly? It was something about single, like a single value versus multiple values. and if something changed? Is each filter parameter now multi-valued? Like you can have the same subgroup filter parameter twice with different and set numbers? Yes, yes. You can have the same parameters. Yes, before each parameter, except the priority, the property filter used to allow itself to repeat. Now they all allow themselves to repeat with different ANSET values. If you have the same ANSET value, then it would be a protocol violation. But different values is allowed, except the property filter. filter it's it's a combination of ANSET and property type that make it unique and it's a violation if you repeat those two identically okay some examples the motivating factor for most of these filters was be able to do keyframe scrubbing you want object ID zero there's a simple easy way to do that the bold numbers here are what we actually care about so object ID zero that shows how to encode it with an object filter just put zero you want a video base layer that's subgroup ID 0 typically, that's what Locke specifies. So you just put a subgroup filter for zero. If you want two enhancement layers, one and three, there are two temporal layers, then you put a subgroup filter on subgroup one for a count of one and subgroup three, ending at three, and we delta encode those, so those red numbers, slash them through, and minus the previous one, you get the delta encoded version in black. The property type filter, the key thing to show there is that we have to add the property type before the values. And that also shows where no end, you just omit the end. The last example is if you want to do the or, you change right after length as the AN set. So you just put two different numbers for the ANSET, and you'll end up with an OR of those two things. So you may want across, you know, temperature and humidity, temperature higher than 30 or humidity higher than 50, instead of ending them together. You can also remove any of these filters just by having a length of zero. That's used in a request update. And the ranges can express all of these operations, you know, equal to less than or equal to, exclusively between, inclusively between, Okay, then the track selection filter. This was one that generated a lot of comments and thanks a lot to Alan and Ian for raising a lot of really good points that helped us refine this. This, if you're familiar with SQL, this is like the same as doing select top in SQL. So it's selecting the top in tracks over an entire namespace, and it's selecting them based on the values of a property that you specify So you specify the property type and it will find the highest values for that property type across all of the tracks in the namespace. You can combine this track filter with all of the other filters too. So all the prior filters that we had and the subscription location filters and the forward flag is the ultimate filter that disables all of these. When you combine all those filters, the key thing is that the track filter all runs first in order to help with scalability. Explain why. This was a change that was requested to allow the relay to run a single track filter for all subscribers of that namespace one time at the ingress of the relay instead of having a track filter per subscriber customized to their needs. Question? Hello. So I have a question about the track filter. So this is for the end to end or hope to hop. For the end, what? It's for the end to end or hop to hold like original publisher or end to the calendar or it's just a relay. It's to the original policy. You subscribe to a namespace only to your, you know, nearest relay, your edge relay. But then that edge relay will go through its network and we actually recommended in the latest PR that relays should aggregate and upstream these requests, all of these filters, including the track filter, so that they all propagate back up to the eventual source, to the original publisher. And so across the entire relay chain, you end up with those filters propagated across all the relays. Okay, so the original publisher can know all the properties and can do the filter, right? Well, typically the original publisher all know its own properties, so it can self-filter the range filters and the location filter and all those other filters. The track filter is a comparison across other tracks. So the track filter can only be done at the edge relay for its directly connected publishers. All the original publishers that directly connect to one edge relay, that relay will run the track filter across all of them. They can't run it themselves because they only have one track. They're always going to be the top one. Well, let me try to understand it. So there may be much of original publisher. and there is one relay and they pass all the filter to the original publishers and they return. How how next happened? The conceptual model is you're doing this over a namespace, right? So let's say you have 100 publishers in this namespace. Yeah. And they're all publishing, let's say they're all publishing to the same edge relay. They happen to all be co-located on one edge relay. That means that edge relay has 100 connections to these, publishers directly, it will run the track filter. It will not propagate the track filter to those original publishers because they're only one. If you said, if all the subscribers that wanted to filter those 100 publishers said, I want the top one, then that edge relay in front of all those 100 publishers would say, I'm going to look at all of these publications and I'm going to pick the one that has the highest metric. Let's say the metric was audio level. Who's speaking the loudest? it'll look at all of those 100 publishers and it will pick the one that has the highest audio metric. It can't propagate that filter to the publisher because the publisher doesn't see everybody else. Yes, yes, that's true. So how, what control message should be like? It's in subscribed namespace. The track filter, when you subscribe to the namespace, to say you're interested in this entire, all tracks in this entire namespace, you can add the track filter parameter. and in that parameter you specify I'll let me just go on one slide and there it is so the track filter parameter is in subscribe namespace or updates to it and you specify the property that you want to watch audio level humidity temperature whatever you specify the property that you want to watch and how many tracks you want to get back so the top in I want you know n equals two or three or whatever and there's also a timeout parameter to say if if one of the publishers has not delivered objects within this amount of time don't consider it in the top end anymore so those are all the parameters that the track filter has okay so I think we need to move on let's go back to the presentation you can you can save your questions for the end so we've removed the max tracks deselected out of this out of this parameter because we now allow relays to purge the old state using published done anytime they want so before there was a rigid algorithm of a table dimensioned max tracks deselected deep that the relays and the and the subscribers had to each maintain now the relay is just free to publish done anytime it wants to purge how much ever state it wants that's a balancing act between you purge too much state then you have to republish again um but now it's under relay control and it simplifies the filter um we also added a new error uh if relays want to protect themselves by saying you know what this filter is too complex i can't upstream this uh and i don't want to process this much complexity they can return an error conflicting filters the subscribe namespace or when they close the um close it out so that they basically just say this this is too complex of a of a filter we added some uh some diagrams to show the state transitions of this track selection filter you start off unknown where the name and alias of the track is not known at all to the subscriber so you can't forward it any of the tracks data when when the track delivers an object that gets it into the top 10 in the top end then it's considered newly selected and it follows that published path with a forward equals one flag when it gets promoted then it goes to the selected state it's selected in the top end tracks and it's passing the filter at that point so all of its objects are flowing if later it uh gets evicted or demoted by another track then drops out of the top end and it goes deselected it could also drop out because of a time out it didn't deliver objects for too long of a time and so it'll get demoted and drop out it'll go to the deselected list and the objects there fail to filter so they're not forwarded anymore when we go to deselected the red key changes we made in this version were we we do a request update now to notify with a forward equals zero flag to notify the subscriber that we're no longer forwarding this track so instead of seeing silence and inferring that the track was deselected we're sending an explicit control message signal that we're deselecting the track if the track becomes reselected again because it delivers a higher metric again then it'll go up to that request update for it equals one flow upon reselection and it's back in the selected state if it sat in a long time in deselected state and the relay wants to clean up excess old subscriptions then the relay will publish done that track and it'll go back up to the unknown state of course no objects can be forwarded when it's unknown if that track becomes reselected again because it delivers a new object that's in the top end it has to go through the newly selected flow and deliver a new publish again um some other nuances of this are you're allowed to subscribe uh to a name that is also in that name space so if you do a subscribe to a namespace and then you later also subscribe to a name space and then you later also subscribe to a name in that name space uh that overlapping subscription is actually allowed because you're we call it pinning that one track regardless of whether or not it's in the top end you're interested in it this is a very common use case uh for example in video conferencing you see the you know top four loudest speakers but then you want to see one particular speaker um you know the the the room that has 20 people in or something so you pin that room and then you don't care if it's the loudest or not you always want it pinned so you're directly subscribing to that one track um and that's that's supported the track filter will never evict that track once you pin it because it's a permanent subscription um you can also update the parameter uh for the subscribed namespace you can change aspects of the track filter when you change those you'll have to be re-evaluated and then you'll get new uh uh uh you could potentially get new publishers for the newly active top end tracks you could get forward equals zero request updates for the ones that got deselected um and there's also a track property filter uh and that will filter the publish message itself so if you apply a track property filter you won't even get the published message so you won't even be notified of those publishers so for example if you had something like codec as one of your track properties because i'm more interested in senders with an av1 codec so then that track property filter will block all of the other codecs from publishing to you some other changes um you know wire encoding efficiency with delta encoded everything the property filter was uh made to look more like the other filters by having multiple of those per property type so that it can you reuse the same parser that all the other range filters used we've clarified a lot of the interactions between subgroup gaps and fetch gaps what that means when you have filters in place added a lot more details to track filter selection and diagrams and how the reselection process works we added a section i'll mention in a minute about uh relay protection to avoid dOS attacks and like i saw like you saw the red on the previous slide we explicitly signal every time we select reselect or deselect the track by doing a request update for it equals zero one uh so there were some issues brought up about asymmetric attacks because the uh the design of both subscribed namespace and specifically the track filter and some other features like forward equals zero those features are inherently asymmetric meaning that a subscriber can ask in a very simple one control message something that triggers a lot of work for the relay that consumes a lot of bandwidth and a lot of compute so there's a worry that that may be a vector for some asymmetric attacks um on the relays so we added some some guidance about how relays can help protect their uh their resources when they see uh potential for something like this uh this is not going to mitigate everything because these uh these filters and things like forward equals zero and subscribe namespace itself are inherently asymmetric by design it's not a side effect it's not an attack vector by design they're intended for a subscriber to request something simple and the relay does a lot of work to give it back uh that that that complex thing um so we can't mitigate all of all of the asymmetry but we're giving relays some guidance about when they can detect that something is uh overloading their resources and how they can escape out of it so first of all the relays should propagate all of these filters upstream should aggregate all what it sees from the subscribers to that namespace and it should propagate a single filter upstream to its uh it's really a network that way it doesn't have to do the work of pulling all the tracks in and doing the logic it back out push it all the way back up to the source um there's also cases where if you can't propagate upstream because everybody's directly connected to you if you have a edge relay that actually has a thousand publishers directly connected to it and all those publishers are in the same namespace then that relay may impose some limits so that it says you know what too many publishers on this namespace the name space is too large so it can error out that that subscription there's also a new conflicting filters error so that if all of the filters that are being requested by different subscribers end up causing too many conflicts and making the relay do too much work to aggregate them and propagate them upstream it can reject them with a conflicting filters error there's also a prefix overlap existing error and that was originally intended for a single subscriber trying to overlap on its own namespace and two subscribed namespaces overlapping each other from a single subscriber that didn't make any sense right but now with multiple subscribers and the relay trying to aggregate them up it does make sense because now you could have two different subscribers that are playing by the rules i want abc you know track namespace a bc and the other one wants track namespace abe when that relay receives those two requests and tries to propagate it upstream suddenly it's in violation of this namespace overlap problem so it can reject those as a as a set of prefix overlaps even though that individual subscriber didn't overlap his own prefix but in aggregate all the subscribers did so we're putting in some guidance to relays about how they can protect against these cases it's not bulletproof and like i mentioned it's there's inherent asymmetry in these in these uh capabilities by design so really is we'll have to exercise caution when using them this is the list of all of the issues and if you go to the PR in 1518 there is a link in the bottom comment of the PR to the GitHub repo that's tracking all of these issues it's actually tracked in the fork where this PR is being authored so we believe we've addressed all of all of these issues but uh we'd like but um we'd like to hear from each of the submitters before we close all those out all right we have seven minutes for questions and comments allan uh okay thanks moe i did a bunch of updates got pushed to the PR this morning but i have not a chance to read them so i will be doing so soon and um provide feedback because i know i've filed a bunch of those issues um so i did have one a few questions that were related i don't know how you didn't mention your presentation one of them is whether like right now it sort of talks about this like deselected state um and we remove the max number which i think is good even like if you're going to do a queue let the relay determine what that number is rather than letting it be different for subscriber um but i also know that some people have implemented this using a timer instead which is like if you get deselected you just sort of i don't i'm going to send you a publish done but i'm going to do it on a delay and if you get reselected before the delay i cancel it so one question is is that now the recommendation or is there no text on it so i'll just asking my questions come back to it um uh you mentioned the product well actually yeah you mentioned property filters that prevent the publish and that maybe wasn't in the previous version so that was new i haven't seen that before or something that came up when i subscribe namespace i really probably don't ever want my own track but i think we can handle that in macti because it's the same it's not filter related and then the last one on security was around limiting recursive like do we need the recursive feature of subscribed namespace in this case meaning when i subscribe top end can i limit it just to the particular prefix rather than that prefix on everything below it in the tree and also can we limit to a single property per well limiting to a single property per prefix meet all the use cases um yes so on those those last points out there's in that section uh talking about all the things that the relay can do to protect itself um you could respond with with the namespace too large uh if you have um your your recursion problem if you don't want the bigger name space you can just say this name space is too large you have to subscribe to the leaf namesames i don't think it's good to force that in the spec that nobody could ever do that um but it gives the relays the freedom to do that if they think the namespace is really too large yeah it's not you don't always know how big the like i don't know like i found you in the tree but i don't know how many children you have in the tree or how many tracks are in each of those places so i mean i sort of i mean the more we can scope this down and the less the relay has to do so if you say you can only subscribe to one namespace and it's not recursive and there's only one property per name like that makes the relay implementation that much simpler so i don't have to track those end different dimensions of this would you impose that same limitation on subscribe namespace itself regardless of filters i don't know the question is that i'm asking does it need the use case like if and i kind of think that for subscribed namespace i'm not sure i think that we need them recursion there anyway i'm not sure i i don't know what do we need to do meet the use cases is a question but minimal that we need to do yeah i mean i don't have a strong opinion i i tend to lean towards let's not restrict things if we don't have to and give the relays the tools to restrict things if it wants to and not ban applications from doing something if it's you know semantically meaningful um we're not using an you know we're not using an application today are experiments that that uh you know that go four deep into a namespace and then wildcard the top level uh but you know i i don't know if another application may want to do something like that i would sort of rather go the other way which is like we scope the minimum thing and that way we don't have interoperability problems it's very clear what you can expect from the relay and then uh if somebody later is like no i desperately need this for this use case won't work until i do it then we extend it later i mean you know name space and name construction is up to the app and you know it can work around anything you know it can flatten into one name it can flatten the namespace hierarchy into one big namespace with you know underscore separated you know tuples if it wanted to and put them all one tuple so apps can work around that even if we put that restriction if they really want to that's can't i want to say mostly just thanks for engaging on the issues it's actually been helpful to have separate issues because um there is a fair amount to discuss here and also i think it feels like on some of the more making meaningful progress um i have not read the most recent version of the PR because it's a reason but i will hopefully today on the flight back um but as you can see with the number of issues there's still i mean i think maybe we don't have to solve all of them before we land something in the end but i think probably a good chunk of them need to at least be like clarified um before you need to solve it so anyway but thanks for making good progress and engaging kind of on each one individually it's been helpful hi uh thanks moh uh just to uh refer to uh allen's point uh i think it's like most most of the applications at least uh i'm just trying from our implementation experience we were able to implement uh crack filter for the active speaker switching use case and and we had an implementation before which was an application-driven metadata data track and react to someone uh whenever someone becomes an active speaker or not versus the experience that we measured with uh relay doing the active speaker switching and and with our initial experiments it does show that uh the end user experience is way way better than what it could happen in the other in the alternate approach um but having said that i i can kind of tend to agree with alan that if we can start with uh not having recursion for filter and maybe that would give a way for implementations to kind of build this functionality and and help uh do the interrupt and and also i totally agree with one of the open issues that we had was what would happen if if the edge relay where they have multiple publishers how would you restrict uh getting all the data with forward equal to one for everyone and having a way for that edge relay to say that uh conflicting or you know just too large it's a good condition for it to handle and i if i went through all the issues that you have and kind of see that we have provided resolutions and uh really i like to see how how can we go further thanks for the work on this one um go ahead and uh go ahead and uhurtej from apple actually i think my questions were asked but i didn't get the answer uh one is that when you said when the deselection happens there's a published done i didn't understand like who is doing the published done let me clarify when the deselect happens uh you notify that the there's request update forward equals zero so you notify the subscriber that it's not going to get objects anymore um you don't have to publish done because you want to keep the track alias alive uh if you run out of resources you run too much subscription state then the relay is free to publish done to clean up that state but typically it would hang on to it for a little bit so that the track may get reselected exactly because if you do the done and new audio starts coming in with like actual voice levels how would you know about it right well when when you publish done you stop forwarding too yeah when you deselect you stop forwarding and then then it cannot be selected again once you do that no so this is on the egress of the relay the egress of the relay is what stops and stops the following he still has to ingress everything is that you don't turn off your ingress because you have to receive the objects to inspect them you can upstream the filter to avoid inspecting them but if you're the edge relay you have to ingress all of those publishers to inspect their objects before you can decide whether or not you're going to egress it towards people okay and then the suhas question about like why is it invalid to for two uh subscribers to have the same filter uh sorry the same overlapping filters and like you would error out from the relay in that case i think that seems like a valid case it's uh it is valid the problem is when the filter when the relay receives those two and it wants to propagate it upstream it cannot propagate that upstream because that that's a violation of our rules right now so it has two choices it could it could it could use the broadest filter and then filter locally when it gets the responses to see which ones go to this one which ones go to that one but if the if the relay thinks that's going to be too much work for it it's free to reject the the subscriptions and say these are conflicting filters you're in the same namespace you better be the same app and you're not playing by the rules that i expect i'll ask more questions offline thank you and and real quick um uh for for mingui's presentation about the alibaba experiments uh one thing you can go back into the previous presentations on this to understand all the use cases for the track filter one of them is feedback aggregation so if you had many subscribers um you could aggregate all of the feedback feedback tracks from those subscribers back to a single publisher with a single signal from a large pool of subscriber feedback so that's okay thank you well nice work uh we'll hand the balance of the time to allan to talk about open issues with the transport draft uh okay we'll go ahead and roll next slide i can give you slide control i would prefer that oh really i like bossing you around Okay. Do I have slide control? If you're logged in as you, yes. I'm not logged in as me. I'm at the room. All right, let's take a look here. Does the room exist in the participant file? yes it is look at that you've got slides control now i see the buttons okay um okay we're trying to start off with the softball we'll see where we face plant okay um so now we have track properties and they go everywhere the track goes but we realize that they are not there's nowhere to put them in the response to track status uh but they probably should be there so uh should we just add a properties field to request okay even though this is like like the only message that would use it and all the other uses of request okay we're just never fill in properties does anybody have a i'm gonna do it unless somebody like gets up and says we shouldn't do it that way to us yeah let's do it okay do you want to get the cue in or you just comes up okay all right i'm gonna try to fix your mic oh keep going okay going once going twice we're gonna do this one will take longer invalid varrants and non-minimal and minimal encodings so Victor noted that the new mock T variant parser now has a tri-state return which is that you try to parse you get some bytes you try to parse it as a bar ant so it can succeed that's good um there is a purely invalid case which is we have decided that there are you you can have your barrent be from zero to nine bytes but it cannot be seven bytes um and some felt like that that was an extension point that we would be able to use in the future if we made non-minimal if we required minimal encodings then a non-minable encoding would also be an invalid case where you're like this is just a hard fail and then there's a third case which is you don't have enough data from uh to parse and so you need to go back so compared to the quick warrant parser which really only had there were no invalid varrants and quick like you like either it succeeds or you need more data um so um there's some like i think there's some desire that we could just go that way and say like every every encoding is valid um there's no way to fail you can only need more data um and so that is that is that is sort of what you and i would like to move to uh does any uh okay there's cute call in suhaus uh hold on some i don't just stay there i'm just i'm just going to come hook up here right here okay um so i i think i'm pretty strongly opposed this it's not a very compelling use case our parser has thousands of ways where you instantly there's an error with the data and it's a session error and you tear down the whole session that's what should happen if you end the counter this value is it's totally a protocol error and should just be torn down so i don't view this as hard hard or difficult to parse it any way um and i know that people are wanting to eliminate any possibility of extensibility has been a goal of many people along this way here but i don't think we should do that i think that that you know 640k will be enough for anyone turned out not to be true you always need enough an extensibility point and we should keep this accessibility point keep that code point that allows us the option of allowing extensibility of some form later um that's that's that's my argument for keeping it but i certainly don't see a very strong argument for needing to not produce an error if you run into it that's so easy to do i don't get the problem uh okay um there's more of a cue i mean do you have any response to that it's it's not easy to do or there is a problem i mean like it like it like i think there's different software designs and if you're living a world where you love exceptions then you just like can throw an exception and catch it somewhere else and then it's then it's not a problem but i would say at least like it did it's how how easy or hard it is to take something that has no particular failure mode and then turn into one that does can like just multiple i agree that's maybe not the most compelling case however i don't actually believe that varrants are extensible in the way that you think they are that's fine i'm not arguing i would love for you to to like write down of like how you plan to make something extensible out of this point because i don't think there's any that actually work because we have many and to say that we don't want the protocol is extensible in many ways including starting by we and now have a new version of maki i don't want to repeat this argument we've had this been many times right i mean came to this conclusion and now that decision is being undermined and our parsers every single other place have errors that can happen in invalidatings that cause a protocol error right this is just the same as all in terms of so i'll say the issue's been like like the PR merged in draft 17 there's an issue open like that you know there's not been a consensus call so like this is the time to speak up and say that what's in the draft is not you know needs it needs address i don't have heartburn over uh excluding seven bites but i do have heartburn over trying to exclude non-minimal encodings leave it as a should but i think there's many cases where applications need the flexibility to support alias non-minimal encodings so sorry i think that there were too many negatives in your sentence you're saying you would prefer to allow non-middle mill yes yes i want aliasing for or they might not be aliases they may actually mean different things okay i don't know that i love that design but your point is no i agree it's ugly but most apps are ugly okay victor uh i mean so when we originally discuss in the seven byte weren't saying uh i agreed that we can ban it if it's not going to become a problem and then i went to implement it was a problem and then i asked people if they're going to implement it or they're just going to ignore and not error in that case and i heard some people saying that they might ignore and not shut down the connection uh which is a strong indication for me that the seven bite warranting is not going to happen uh and originally i thought it was fine because there were no compelling reasons and now this isn't like it might not be 100% compelling compelling but it's like i expect it to be in practice they do not expect us to ever using the seven byte extension point in practice like uh like those are two i agree that both of those are relatively uncompelling but this one is more compelling for me because it's an actual implementation issue um victor do you have a perspective on non-minimal encodings uh non-minimal encoding uh non-minimal encoding uh non-minimal encoding uh i think it's a not another error case and if we're trying to get rid of it i think we should keep uh so one thing i want to important is that i really do not want to be in a situation where i have an implementation which rejects their bite warrants and then there are implementations out there that do not because that means people will test against their interrupt against those and then they will ship buggy clients and that they will attempt to interrupt with me and i will have to uh incur friction from that so that is my like worst case scenario and that's why i feel like we should either decide that everyone enforces those or like we just don't do this are you going to say allan i can i'm getting a little i'm hearing comments in the chat that you are harder to understand than people like victor so i don't know if there's any sort of magic you can do there to sound a little clearer in Tokyo that you figured out regarding placement of the mic etc if you can do it please do it thank you okay i will maybe try to speak more slowly um yeah it also may be possible to mute this mic i'm not sure um i was just going to say that i i'd like to get a decision on the non-mineral encoding if we can at least get that done now and i think as an individual i'm think i'm biased towards not erring out in those cases but i just want to call up the word group that like there are currently nine different ways to represent zero so like maybe we like that maybe we like that maybe we don't um but yeah it'd be good to get it move because there's currently a PR open that was going to change it so you i think always sometimes had to i wrote a PR that said you must use minimal and must error otherwise but then the more i thought about the more i wasn't really sure that that that actually was a good idea i don't know i same uh okay let maybe let's separate these two things um is there are we can we can we i only heard people speak to allowing non-minimal encodings does anybody want to speak for requiring minimal encodings christian well actually my argument is different we are using the new variant in places where we used the quick variant before the quick variant do not have any requirement of of minimal encoding if we make that requirement we are going to change a bunch of code flows and get everybody in trouble so i would rather not do that okay yeah that is what i was trying to express on this slide that i think colman is trying to speak on the other side of um but i agree with you i'm i'm willing to hold my original position just quickly okay uh yeah i i i don't have strong opinion on this one other than i saw two presentations this week that kind of like both lock and also secure objects that showed concerns with having uh not not being not having a minimal like minimal encoding support i just want to make sure that we need to somehow settle settle this uh i i'd give recommendations for those two drafts and what's and how to address those issues uh along the with what what do we do with mock transport okay but you you personally don't have an opinion on either way you just want an answer i just want an answer uh for the two issues which i see is real issues and like some of we need to kind of find an answer i'm okay with it okay martin do yeah i would just like the comment as an individual that these these two questions are kind of related because they kind of come to the same point which is do we don't have tripartout's tri-tart state in our warrant encoder or not uh with our particular presentation would be great if we did not have tripartite state so let's let's not let's not restrict uh the variant length uh okay um can i ask you to put your chair hat back on and uh my job is to reflect the consensus of the working group in the document so do you have a way of judging the consensus of the working group in this case we could do a do a show hands if people want but i mean has anyone spoken up for uh i don't think that anyone has said anything about the non-minimal in favor of restricting encoding coding length um i guess there's one person who stated a like wants to preserve the seven-byte restriction we could do a show of hands if you would like would anyone else like to speak in favor of the seven-byte restriction the seven-byte right color coming back up tonight trying to figure out okay so just just a i thought we were talking about the minimal encoding not the seven byte thing okay um so maybe it seemed there was some cross between which one we were talking about um and on the one if we're going so so if we're not going to uh say that you must encode in the minimal length which is perfectly fair to do um i think that we need to just take the next portion of the conversation here to be clear of this that mean when you send numbers on they must be the same as they as the publisher sent them to you do you have to preserve the encoding of them i think that's what mo was that was the case mo was making for it arguing and uh i mean that's uh you know that means in your caches and everything when you save all these things if an object id was if it was zero coded one way versus zero coded another way you have to keep that i'm fine with us going that way but i mean what i'm saying is that's the we have to get clear on that decision okay we talked about this a little bit in secure object and in as much as like that var variance appears in a block that's fed into your a ad at darn well better be the same but that means every relay has to preserve it all the way along including the way of cash when it's in the immutable block that's true now the i don't know what most well let's talk about group ID so i'm sorry a couple comments here as an individual so um uh first of all all variants are generated by the original publisher right you have you have you have track a leases which are very specifically local um uh so i it it's not even nor there to say like oh it's got to be for the original publisher um regarding secure objects i mean to muddy the waters further to bring in that whole subject but i think a very simple solution we just expand those to 64 bits for um a ed computation purposes um no but i but i'm the question i'm trying to ask that we're here is but nothing to do with secure objects pretend it doesn't exist okay okay like let's just take things that do pass along end to end right like object id um do we need so right now the draft says you should encode those minimally it doesn't say must and it doesn't say anything else and i think what what we're proposing here what mo was saying is no those get used for other things other people christian made arguments made it for other things that's good but it's the alternative text to they must be minimally encoded be if you receive them from somewhere you must transmit them in the same form you receive them because that's the alternative as far as i can tell to meet the use cases we're just talking about don't think that's the only alternative okay fair enough yeah i think the other alternative is like for example martin was saying like you just then you can't build applications like mo you can't use the varient length bits as part of your you need to have an explicit field rather than trying to make assumptions about that or for something like secure objects you say like all varrants get expanded to 64 bits before they go into the hash or whatever so that's another option but i don't i don't like the idea of having to preserve the encoding that sounds nuts i mean i thought so but that's where i thought we were go that's what the what i thought the consensus calls the shares were about to make was and i wanted to be clear what we were trying to decide to close this so i would it would be great as i'm with i'm with ian it would be great to close this issue okay um there's a cue i had actually oh there we did managed a face plan on the second slide here um i do have other stuff i would love to talk about uh would you just like me to do a show of hands do you want to just do a show of hands i have a proposal before you do a show of hands sure the classic iatf guidance is as senders be very conservative in what they send and receivers be very lenient in what they accept so if you're the parser of this accept anything except the non-milmal encodings and try to preserve that on if you're the sender don't expect anybody to preserve your encodings and use the safest most conservative minimal encoding so senders should always encode them minimally but not rely on on on being preserved receivers should allow in non-minimal encoding and should preserve it if they can okay so the the binary choice i'm going to present here is should we change the current minimal martin there was martin somebody else was in cue here okay so briefly briefly uh mo sometimes pastel is wrong this is one of those times uh the third way is that you can have uh that if you have a canonical way to express things for comparison and for signing that you can use one of those ways thanks okay there's question no text editor is killing me but my advice is that we have we have a lot of history with canonical and encodings and that history is not good. Yes. Okay. All right. And so preserve the encoding is the best practice. All right. If you've not already joined the meeting with Meet ECHO with Light Client, that would be a great time to do it. So this is a question on whether we should change the should to a must. Sorry for the typos, but this text editor was killing me. The choice one is the status quo in the draft, which is that you one should these minimum coatings, the requirement, the alternative here is to change it to a must. That would be a yes vote. why does anyone need more time okay i'm going to call it good at four for people in favor of making it a must 22 against can anyone not live with it being a should and if so would you like to approach the mic and say so would you like to approach the mic and say so This is not, I cannot live with, but why do you even have a should? People are going to do the small thing because... Don't confuse the question, Martin. We copy it from quick, too. Yeah, whatever. If you don't like a should, you could file an issue against it. Alan loves when people file new issues. Okay. Do you have this suddenly you need, Alan? I do accept the seven bytes, but I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to start a threat. is I'm going to start a thread on the list and I'll ask the chairs to follow. We have two minutes. Do we want to have... There's no way it's resolving in two minutes. We can do a show of hands in two minutes. Okay, you want to do another show of hands? Sure. Please stop the timer so we can read the... Oh, I actually typed that correctly for once. Okay, so this question is actually in whether we should... Currently in the draft, seven-byte very... Areans are disallowed? Yes, Mo. Clarification, is there any side effect of this that it pushes a 64 out to 10 bytes or anything? Is there any side effect of this? The 7 byte code point is currently disallowed for extension for the ability purposes. It doesn't impact any of the other encodings. It won't extend anything. No. Oops. Must with two T's. Like English. Okay. Does anyone need more time? Okay, there we go. Okay, I'm going to close it in 10 seconds unless someone hollers very quickly. Just turn on your mic and say so if you need more time. Okay, I'm going to close it. 15 people in favor of yes, five, and no. We have one minute remaining. Would anyone, because anyone cannot live with any outcome here. Okay. No one's speaking up. That one's a little close. We might want to take the list, Alan, but I think that's a useful signal that can inform. I will put a thread on the list if people want to add additional. All right, excellent. Okay, thank you very much, Alan. I didn't think we're going to... Hey, I've got a slide. The next one will terminate in less than 30 seconds. Because it's a 30-second editorial bike shed. If you want to take VI-64 or V-64. I already picked one. Somebody opened to PR. What did you pick? It's currently VI64 for variable... Can anyone not live with V64? Say so now? Okay. No one said anything. Go with it. All right. Thanks, Alan. I didn't think we'd face plan on veterans, but there you go. Our next interim meeting is March 30th at 1630 UTC. We had, we didn't have time for a... a demo today of server site ABR from the folks at Disney. Tentatively, it is planned from the 30th. So those of you might be interested in that, I encourage you to try to attend on the 30th. I'm going to put out a call on the list for other agenda items that day. And I will see many of you at the virtual and many others of you at our hybrid interim in London in June, as I announced in the first session, and the rest of you will see you in Vienna. Thank you. Martin, it originally was just I. But then somebody would say, well, if I ever wanted to show a posit of, like, mock T over, just over quick, then you need to see what, like, Thank you.