all right it's all right it's time this is the upsyria meeting if you were in this room for another meeting this would be a good time to exit I have met with me, I'm Mahesh, and I wanted to thank Thomas Graff for agreeing to take the minutes for this meeting. But we would be happy if other folks also join in in the taking of notes, especially about comments that you might have provided at the mic. This is Monday. I'm sure you have attended at least one meeting with a note. well, but in case you haven't, essentially by participating in the ITF, you are agreeing to all the policies and processes that IATF has laid down. So you should be familiar with this. Hopefully the onsite tool that will allow you to get in the queue to ask any questions. And of course, it's a virtual blue sheet for us, so we know you were here. Keep your audio and video off as you are using the Meet Echo tool. For remote participants, keep your audio and video off till it is time for you to do to be the person who's presenting. And of course, if you have a headset, use it. I think you'll find it helpful and we'll find it easier to hear you. Even though you queue up and your name shows up, it might be still helpful to state your name when you're asking a question on providing a comment. Here's the agenda for today. Unless there's anything else you would like to see on the agenda, we'll run through this. Okay, I'm told that that should be enough for us to get started. So we have our first set of The first presentation is from the state of the Ops area. Paula? Paula? From this nice thing. Yeah, you can just. So just waiting for Paolo to, yeah, to be here on the stage, we can just I would say some of the, if you can just move to the next slide. So this is just, I would say, a snapshot of the work that in the area about the working with rechargement. So as you have, you can see there, we have then, I would say, almost one of half of the, our working group that went into a charting, which is really great so that we can have, I would say, a refresh on course, for our work. And we all, we invite, I would say, all the working groups, yeah. groups, yeah, that's the, to check the charters and to let us know when there is a need for us and head from the EDs to help you, I would say, have your work being appropriately scoped and anchored in the charter. Next slide, please. This is also the snapshot of the, I would say, the leadership update and changes we have on the various working groups and the directs right from the area, as you can see. So there are almost half of the working group that have seen changes. So with new faces and new blood coming into this slide. Next slide. So in the, in the slide that we will say that are on the proceeding, there are the updates of all the ops working groups and all ops directors that are available there. But during this decision and for the sake of, I would say, optimizing and helping dive into specific working groups, we'll be focused on two working this time. This will be grow with Paolo and Eserbics from Drew. And then there is a presentation from the young there from Kufang. So Paolo, please. Hello. Yeah, next. So, yeah, grow working group. It's essentially like the company. It's essentially like the companion of IDR. IDR. If in IDR you specify what is BGP essentially in growth, you say how you can operate BGP in the global internet. This is in a nutshell, you know, the mission of the working group. What are the main topics? BMP, which is the BGP monitoring protocol, which has been originally, you know, standardized in the the working group and there is some follow-up work going on and then different aspects of BGP operations. The drama level of the working group is very, very low, near zero at the moment, so that's excellent. And what we have is one document that is going, that, you know, is in last call since ITF, have 124. We have one very small document that got adopted, and another one about root leaks that was flagged dead as of last week. We had a chat with the authors of this document, Alex Asimov and Srirram, and they essentially confirmed that the document lost it's momentum, right? Now we have ASPA, we have other things going on, and so, yeah, continuing that work was just not fruitful anymore. Since 124, there has been no charter update or leadership update. And now for who was in Madrid, for this same presentation that I had, this is the moment that I was waiting for, which is that I have another slide. slide. So the group working group, as I was saying, it's a home to BMP. So for who doesn't know what BMP is, is monitoring, playing for BGP, right? So for a long time, we have been using either BGP itself to monitor the protocol, so we were using BGP peerings. And sometimes we could not access the information, right? So like if we wanted Adjribing or AgriB about information, essentially it was like a screen scraping, right? And so with the BMP essentially we are giving a uniform platform, we have a protocol and we get access in all the different advantage points that can be useful for the BGP monitoring. So yeah. gives access to all the different trips. You can monitor pre and post policy. We will see it in the next slides. We have, you know, the initial synchronization, like if it was, you know, a BGP peering, so we have the blast of all the routes when a peer comes up. Then we have the incremental updates. Essentially, we really encoded the BGP PDU right in the so-called route monitoring. And then we have also statistics and pierce up, pierce down, and things like that. And it's an extremely simple protocol. It was meant to be unidirectional. So it runs on TCP and there is no feedback, no agreement, no anything with the collector. So you have a router that is exporting data, and there is never, you know, collector saying anything back. So it's a relatively simple protocol, by design, I would say. This is a recap of, you know, having a diagram in the slides. It's always nice, right? So this is why I said, let's do it. So you can see what are the vantage points. You have, so the Adribing, the local rib and the adribout, and Adjribing and Adjribout, you have pre-enpost policies. So you have these five vantage points from which you can, you know, monitor the different info. has it moved through, you know, the router, the peer. And yeah, what is the status of BMP? Like, so we had, and the original RFC was very oriented to, I don't know, security use cases. It was limited towards being pre-imposed policy. And then essentially like the first thing, that we did was to add new vantage points, so Lockrib and Largeribout, they came later. And so this is looking back. Looking forward, we are making the format extensible, right? So we are making sure that the TLV, every message type in BNP as a TLVs, so you can extend with additional information the core of the message, which was not the case with the original specification. We are adding event-driven message. event-driven messages, so you know, on top of statistics and synchronization with the peer, with the peers, we have also event-driven messages, so I don't know. You want just to convey, I don't know, that there is a status change of the validation of the prefix, for example, that would be an event. We are standardizing the young model for BMP. And BMP, it's kind of hot. I was looking. at all the documents that we have that either were adopted or they were, you know, stealing personal proposal status. We have really, you know, 25 documents. So it's quite a lot. There is quite some work, you know, on BMP. But like I was saying, BMP is not the only thing that Grow does. So we have the near real-time mirroring protocol for IRRs that, you know, you know, it's almost on, you know, the goal line. We have the peering API, which is a very interesting initiative in which essentially like, we are trying to define how, you know, two systems, two AES can interact through an API to establish a peering for automation purposes, of course, for mass scaling out peerings. And then we have a PIRN. And then we have a PIRN. a number of documents around best practices for BGP in the global internet, terminology. So you can see there are security consideration and so things around the security terminology and in this moment also consideration around BGP communities. So that's it for me. This is Groh. I hope that it excites you enough. If you didn't attend Grow, please come. It's after the session after this one. Thank you. In a question for Paolo before we move to Drew? Well, I do in case anyone doesn't. So since you mentioned the Yang model for B&P, this is for transport over IPFex or Yang push? No, this is at the moment it's for configuration only, right? But we of course are thinking, you know, what could be the next steps? because once you have a model, you use for configuration, then you could use for exporting data as well. Thank you. Thank you. I'll be talking about SRV6 ops on behalf of my co-chairs, Wade Ching and Dan. What is SRV6? Basically, it's a forum for all network operators to come and discuss various SRV6 operational matters. The things that are hot this time, we have various presentations from operators who are dealing with SRV6 in cloud, doing service function chaining with security services. services, applying SRV6 in a power grid enterprise network. So various different deployment cases of SRV6 this time. And we have two sessions. One session we are focusing on the operator presentation, and then on Friday, we have all the drafts that we will be discussing. The hot topics, address planning, that is a new draft that we discussed last time. It's on the agenda this time as well. making good progress there. The key achievement from the group, as for our template, basically we made our first two drafts as working group drafts, those are the deployment options and problem summary, and we continue to see good participation from the operators, and that's something worth replicating at other places as well. So, before we go in detail, why did we even create this working group? The main reason, was SRV6 work is highly distributed. We have Spring where we do architecture and the main framework, but that is shared between SRMPLS and SRV6. Any data plane enhancement happens at six man. If things which are related to IPV6 operation, that goes in V6 ops, all the control plane extensions that we do for SRV6 are distributed in all the different working groups like ECE, IDR, et cetera. So having a forum where we can have targeted discussions, focusing on SRV6 operational matters, was deemed useful, and that's where the community said that give us a forum where we can discuss this topic because other work is in various different pieces in different working groups. And operators are deploying SRV6 in environments which are very, very different, ISPs, cloud, just examples that we saw of the different cases that are being presented this time itself. And there are various operational questions that are being raised. What is the best migration strategy, address planning strategy, sit strategy, how do I monitor into work, et cetera? So this forum has been a pretty good experience in getting those voices in. We hope we could deliver more with actual recommendation and best practices, which we have to do drafts which are adopted, but we hope we could do more of actually laying on guidelines as our next step. So one thing we decided from the start, we wanted a way for us to be more inviting to operators, especially folks who are not active in ITF, and always pointing them to our data tracker was, though it's written for us who are updating documents, it's not the most well worst thing for people who are new to the ITF. So we need to the ITF. So we need to do that. develop this working group page and we try to point people to that it is also maintained in our GitHub so we accept like if people have ideas on how to do this better some new things that we can add on the website please submit PR for that so this has been pretty good we have like you know just a very welcome message inviting where our next meeting is and if you are an operator who is deploying SRV6 come talk to the SRV6 of shares and we would love to help you and guide you on how to present in one of our sessions these are various different operators over last couple of meetings who have come and given us like you know given us their thoughts the presentations have varied from we are deploying in these different environments and these are the challenges we are facing some people are starting on their SRV6 journey so they want to present the questions that needs answering before they start a pretty good diverse set of topics they are all linked to the YouTube timed PDF and the meeting information trying it to make it as simple look there is already so many operators why don't you come and tell what is the unique thing that you are facing in your network the two drafts that we have started adoption we have already finished adoption and we are working towards hopefully publication the first is the SRV6 deployment option mainly providing operational guidance how to migrate from if you you have an MPLS or SRMPLS and if you decide SRV6 is for you what are the steps that you could follow and what are the different options what are the different trade-offs things like that not giving one standard way but discussing them in an informational document the other one which is deployment and operational problem summary this is basically a list of various things that we hope this working group can agree on that these are the problems that we are facing and then develop more documents focusing on what are the best way operationally to solve them if there is things that are identified as extensions that doesn't belong in this group this is only with respect to operations what are the way in which we couldn't solve this and what are the best practices out there from people who have already deployed this at scale and but we also have a lot of topics from an individual ID so there is a lot of interest people are deploying SRV6 in different deployment architectures especially with AI back-in DC Fenton service function chaining so those are being proposed I mentioned about address planning that is something that we hope we can make good progress on traffic steering policy selection strategies load balancing protection various different things we are still finding our way on how do we club there are way too many documents what is the best way to club them and and how do we figure this thing out that's still being discussed this the new working groups it takes time to figure those things out as well so this is my last slide if you are aware of more SRV6 deployment out there and some things that will be useful to document as a best practice as guidance to others or in general inviting them to participate in ITF and be active this is a good entry point a venue for them to come in and we would like to encourage that as well. Thanks. Any comment for Drouf? I have just one question from my side. Since I think it's now it's almost two years I do working group is alive and during the year I would say the charter of this working there was a fair about the overlapping with the spring working group at the time. So with now with the experience we have today how things are really working with that working group? I think having a common AD chairs that are talking to each other and before we make any decision keeping each other in loop that always helps and i think we can we have spring chairs in the room if maybe they would like to say anything uh sure i'll better than a spring chair uh yes i agree with drove uh the overlap of the of the of the ad helps a lot to keep us sort of honest and in our lanes uh in spring as drew we already mentioned we coordinate with a lot of other working groups a lot with ADR and with six men and with B6 ops so we do this with pretty much all the other chair groups to coordinate and make sure that that we're doing what we need to do and they're doing what they need to do so i think it's working very well yes thank you thank you thank you No, you have to, she looks a new one. Thank you. Okay. Hello, everyone. Good afternoon. My name is Tiefan and on behalf of the young doctor secretary team, this is a presentation. This is a presentation to zoom on the young doctor secretary team, this is a presentation to zoom on young doctor. By the way, poor and I ourselves are young doctors as well. So the young doctor team overview, because it is required that all the ITF documents with the young modules must be reviewed by young doctors before ISC approval. So we are such an active volunteer expert team on the ITF ops area and we are actually a mandatory review body for the young module documents with a key focus on the ITF NetMod Young Standards. So we also act as the NETCOF young advisors to provide help to others like young expertise in our ITF working groups and areas. So a lot of our young doctors are really active in ITF and MOTMOT working group. For example, some of our young doctors are really active in ITF and make a really active contribution to the young working work and others might lead the discussion of Young Next. So we have close cooperation with NetMod working group and we provide support to all the working groups in ITF. So there is a detail, if you would like more details, feel free to refer to our data track page and also the mailing list for related discussion and also the track the reviews. The young doctors review principles, because the majority of our work is to provide the review work. So currently we have 17 young expertise. However, two of them are not available to do reviews at this time, maybe because they are too busy now. So generally, the tooling will for a new review task means draft has never been revealed by young doctors. The tooling will suggest a round-roving assignment to assign a young doctor for the review. And it's also common for the working group chairs to request a repeated review for a single draft because they see that the document might benefit from another review by our young doctors as the draft involved. So generally the tooling will suggest the original reviewer to give a quick pass edit. So we have a couple of key references that serve as our guiding principles. The fundamental standards is the RFC 17950, the Young 1.1 specification, and also the RFC 84 07Bs. I think it's just published today. Congratulations as the RFC 990. RFC 9907 on the guidelines for authors and reviewers of young data model documents. There are some other key compliance like the RFC AD342, the NMDA. So we will check whether the draft, the young module is NMDA compliant. For example, to have a single hierarchy for all the configuration and operational data, as well as the young wording work. which is actually a set of documents in net mode and once that draft is going to be approved from ISD, we definitely will check the revisions of young modules to be compliant with young version. And there is also some potential feature alignment as the discussion of velocity in Ops area working group, which is actually experimented to like for the publishing documenting and publishing young modules so when that when that experiment is conducted definitely we will do some alignment with that and in the end we always welcome feedback from authors working groups and the reviewers to help us refine our review criteria if you think needed so this slide is an overview of our past one year review data So in the past one year, we have received a total of 65 pieces review requests. And six of them were withdrawn and three of them are reviewed in progress now. So we have completed 56 requests. However, only 66% of the requests are finished or completed on time time means gives the review before the deadline and others are actually delayed. I guess a lot of reasons for I think one reason I see could because a lot of our young doctors are no longer very active in ITF now so they have limited time and efforts put into the review work and all it's just because the young module is quite long complex and our young doctors is not really familiar with the protocol discussed in that working group so it just takes time to deliver a high quality quality review so the majority of the majority of the review actually the early review because it is required that all the young module drafts must be reviewed during the working group last call or even earlier and some chairs may request a repeated review during the 40 ITF last call review if they see needed. And the review outcomes are quite split. So this is our top five reviewers who have completed the most review tasks over the past one year. A lot of thanks to Lada, Andy, Joe, Eben and Marty. I think let's hear. some applause here. We really appreciate your time and efforts. Thanks for the kind of support and thanks for your contribution. So we also facing some key challenges now and so the following two slides will give some key challenges and the potential actions that we might have. So the very first challenge that I see could be the insufficient active young doctors. So as I said, there is actually a high load on a small set of, a small group of people to handle the review requests and provide technical guidance. There is actually a tension between the early engagement and the resources. On the one hand, we can see that the early engagement of young doctors could help avoid the draft going further the wrong direction. and have identified the issue earlier, but this also at the same time, this also means more work, or even we might need to do repeated reviews. So there is actually attention. And for this challenge, I think we are always calling for the young doctors joining, I mean calling for the young expertise joining our team. So if you would like to make contributions, if you would like to make contributions, you're If you like to do the reviews and you have the young expertise, please feel free to reach out to us if you are interested. Another key challenge, I see that it's about the future readiness. So as young itself is evolved and we also need to continuously update our review criteria and expertise and also prepare for potential process changes. So, Generally, we will align review guidelines with involving young standards like the RFC-84-007Bs and also the young versioning, Young Next work. And we will also track the emerging processes such as Velocene. So at that draft, it's been discussion when that experiment is conducted. We might need to update our review criteria and there might be also update in our review scope. Like we might expand our scope from just checking the syntax and the semantics of young modules to like the CRCD check, setup, and the validity of that links to modules, etc. So this is actually an ID template with young modules under the there is under the ITF of AD organization. So this report is, I guess, I think it's used for the makeup, as for the markdown template. So with the integration of young validations with draft development, the auto generation of young tree diagrams as well as the validation of just examples. So if you want to write your draft with young modules, feel free free to use this template. We encourage the use of this template to give some automation, checking and generation. Okay, I think that's it. Hey, hi Cree from Thomas Graff. Just one, so first of all, the ID template that's really great to have, looking forward to use it. Just one comment on the young tooling, like currently in in the data tracker, we are using PYang and Yang Link to validate the Young drafts. And as Mahesh is aware of, when Yang extensions are there, you know. It's quite important for ITF before we are actually releasing that as an RFC that it's actually supported within the tools. However, in the past, in those decisions, we're not taking place and have one concrete example, which is the Young Structure extension. So currently all the documents which have young structures are failing in the data tracker. So Lib Yang has recently been updated to support that. However, we still have on the tooling on the data tracker, we are still using the old version of Lib Yang. So it would be really good to update that to the latest releases. Joe, what do you think the state of... Oh, sensitive. Oh, sensitive. Hi, Joe Clark. I put my name in the queue specifically for this. So data tracker tracks stable debion packages for Libyang. Per Anderson is a Debian maintainer, and he's offered to create a Debian for Libyang, a more modern version than 2.x is what we're using now. If he does that with whatever is cut from a release standpoint, I've Robert, as Robert Sparks has said he would happily update that, we can do a pull request to data tracker and get it in there. That seems to be reasonable. I mean, we're planning to do the same kind of thing for Yang version. We're going to need the new Yang Lin, we're going to need the new Pyang and that kind of stuff. Okay, thanks for that update. So I also put myself in the queue to kind of help Chifong with since this is almost a recruiting event for Yang, you'd be happy to know that the transcription is making is saying it's young doctors, not Yang doctors. So if that's incentive enough for you, you are the young folks. But maybe the question for Shafong is, what is the typical load for the current set of reviewers? If somebody is trying to sign up, up how many documents in a year or in a month what they're looking at to review? I think there is a wiki page to document actually what a young doctor should review. Generally, the focus would be the young module itself. But a lot of our young doctors will provide other review in the draft, like if the tax is aligned with the young module and also other things. Right. So the question is, What is the load, meaning how many drafts are they reviewing? How many, each young doctor, how many documents do the review in a month or a year? Yeah, so each young doctor, they can set their own frequencies to do the review. A majority of them will like to do one draft every two months. I guess this is the most popular frequency. Either it might be more frequent or because it's just a regular. repeated review and the young talk has finished and then has to do another review. Yeah. Yeah, Joe Clark again. I was on that list. I had five. I don't feel overwhelmed maybe two a month. It seems like less than that sometimes. And yeah, Chufong said, you review what you can and you can change it. I haven't changed my preferences, so what I get, I try to review. It doesn't feel nearly overwhelming though. And 8407 business. 8407 BIS, I mean, there's a lot of guidelines to help too. Yes, yeah, exactly. Thank you. Thank you. All right, so let's speak about the RFC 5706 bis. So guidelines for considering operations and management in ITF specification. So on behalf of the different authors, let me clarify what we do here. This RFC 5706 is actually like dated from 2009, so it was was good at that time, but there are a couple of problems. The content still still speak about MIPS. It at the same time targets multiple audiences. And also the guidance is lost. There is a mix of guidance and also technical background. So what we decided is to update this document. So for this UPS area discussion, we decided to give the Russian and explain what we want to do with this draft. This is a work of a document in the OPS of LU, and we're going to discuss specific text in that working group. So what's the rationale? Don't delay thinking about how to deploy it and operate your new protocol. And what we did because we received a lot of feedback from director, its reviews, is that we try to clarify this with text directly. So at the same time, you can read the exact text, text that we put in the draft. And we try to make it very clear. The core principle of this document is to encourage early on discussion rather than mandating any specific solution. Which is something that we've been trying to solve like many, many years ago, it was like, oh, operation, we'll do it later. Now, what we did as well is that we put in the appendix. the appendix like typical questions that you might be considering. So about operational fits, about configuration management, about performance management, about full management. So I encourage you to review the document, but at some point in time, if you want to just ask yourself the right question, you might also approach document from the appendix. because you have some question about it, is that in the end, the different working group will decide what is right for them. So let me read the text to you. A working group may decide that its protocol does not need interoperable operational and management or even a standardized model. But it should be a deliberate and documented decision, and not simply like the reason of omission. of omission. So we try to give all these rational and those principles at the beginning of the document. But if you do so, you must document the decision. And by the way, if you're paying attention, you will realize that I cut and paste it the wrong text there. So I'm going to correct it for the next version. But it said, it's perfectly fine if you don't want or don't need to have this open. you have this operational right now, but please tell us a bit about why at the time of the design. And the last thing we want is to, we don't want this to be a hurdle, right? We provide a framework where you could help you to say, these are a typical question you might be thinking about. This is how you could structure information. but we don't want to make it painful for you. This is the key point. And we don't want to impose a solution to you. We don't want to impose a mandatory, you shall do it this way, you shall do a young module, you shall do IP fix, whatever. We don't imply a formal model or specific solution. And we don't even require to develop a formal model or specific solution. And we don't even require to develop that you develop the solution directly, right? It might be also within a different document or a different way. So we try to clarify all of these because you got questions from all the directorates. One more thing we clarified because we had the situation. Let's assume I've got this old routing protocol. And we never thought about doing operation about it. it? Fine. Now we do this extension. And what we're trying to say is that you will not delay. We don't want the extension to delay because you have no operation on the base protocol. This is not the intention. So we should not be held up waiting for operations and management solution to be developed on the base specification. So what we did is that we've been updating the document. And to make it clear upfront, we say there is a requirement for the ITF to have an operational consideration section in new RFCs in the ITF stream for protocol or protocol extension. But we stressed early in the abstract that there is the escape close that if you're you don't need one, simply document the rational and we're good. We don't want to be dictator, right? But that point was actually somewhere in the draft. Now this is in the abstract. So the author meet on a weekly basis. We keep everything open with the issues and the PR, and we have three different revisions since the last ITF. And the fourth one might be posted very, very soon. Even now, maybe. I want to express also that at the beginning this document was an AD sponsor document. Now, in order to even get more feedback, it became a work group document, where in what I call the dispatch working group for operation this is the OPSABLUG working group battle good we've been working with Joe Clark and myself and others on authoring this document and when it became a work document we had an issue that both Joe and I are chair of OpsWG as a consequence Alvaro became the document Shepard and somehow it's a good thing because Al Barrow has got this routing background and maybe routing is the first area which is the customer for this document as I mentioned much directorate feedback and by the way also feedback not from directorate but directly on the mailing list and we still have to address and answer to this feedback so I would say that generally there is support for this document in a sense that there is good content in this. There is one comment about the compulsory nature of this section. Well, it should be compulsory or not. Maybe the biggest highlight here in this slide is that this draft has been having an effect already, a positive effect already. If we look in the IESG tele chat, the one from February, 757, sorry, 57% of the document already have this operational conservation section. If I look at the last one from March, right? March 5th, 71. And what pleases us as author is that we see this not only from you guys, right, operations, but also from the different area, the routing, the security, ins, etc. And we see this also for stand-up track, sorry, from PS experimental, informational, proposed standard informational and experimental, which is a good. good thing. So the next step, okay, we're going to discuss this document in the OpsBLUG. We, as author, we have a couple of issues to resolve and a version will be posed very soon. We, and I actually it's done. So this is real time. We're telling it if it's slow, I'm talking about posting a draft and it's done right under session. Thank you, Joe. So from an author point of view, we have addressed many of the comments. There are still some that needs to be addressed and answer on the mailing list. Fine, we're going to address all of them. And whenever it's done, then it will be time for us calling it even more feedback from the community. And this is my last slide. And if you have any questions or feedback, we can post a new version right now. right now? John? Chang, thank. Hello, Chong Feng. Hello, Chongfong from China Telecom. Yeah. In this document, I noticed that the one sentence which sides operational conservation, second, will also often be appropriate in draft advance for publication as information on RFCs, right? But I noticed some information drafts, for example, prominent draft, which may advance as FC. I think, I don't think this kind of draft do not need the operational consideration. So what's your point? I think that you are fully right. It's exactly why we mentioned this escape close. It says there, okay, the clock is in front of it, while providing an escape close, if no consideration are identified. A problem statement is typically something where you don't need to think yet about the operational statement. And to me, you are fully right, we don't need it. So, yes. So yesterday, for example, I was working on a document. And I had a question from the co-author. It was an informational document. And the question was, IANA consideration. There is no INA consideration section in this document. No, IANA action. And they ask why. And I explained, okay, because it's not a young model and all this. My point is that it took me like 30 seconds to write. There are no INA consideration. consideration. You can do the same thing here, a prime statement. There is no operational consideration right now because it's a frame statement. 30 seconds. So I agree doesn't apply, but just writing this one sentence is not going to be a time killer. Okay, thank you. Thank you. As the Ops director chair, I think this is very helpful for all our helps director reviewer, because I know there are quite useful guidance on routing and ops drafts drafts review. But security ones, art, there's not enough. But I think in a slide you showed there's some repo there that also mentioned drugs from other areas. I think that is felt forward to a lot of reviewers. So I think if there's a repo there, we can send the link to our ops director and also adding to the template to show some back practices here of different areas. We could do this. Very good. I want to add two things. Is that do you want to mention the ops director at Wiki that we have? Yes. Because we extracted that from the RFC 5706 to put it there. Do you want to express a few words about that for the audience? Yes. Yes. I mean, I didn't follow you. So basically, let me make the first point. The first one I want to make is that the ops directorate has got their own wiki now where we extracted information from the old RFC specifically for the ops directorate. And the second thing I want to mention is that this discussion sparkled another discussion. You mentioned security. And then we started to have like security consideration related to ops. Yes. SECOPS and it became too big this document. So as a consequence now, we have a brand new document which is considered in the observable UG about SECOPs, which I thought was great and was maybe not, you know, there should not be the content of this specific draft. So this is sparking good discussions. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next, this lot will be having, I would say, having a focus on EI and operations. So we'd be having three operators that we invited from China here. So thank you again for three of you, I'm accepting to share with us. Your thoughts, challenges and also the work we are doing on this. Thank you, please. Okay, thank you all. And this is my pleasure to have this opportunity to share our experience for operator area with all you. So first, brief introduction of China Telecom. China Telecom is one of the biggest operators in the world, and we have 440 million mobile subscribers and and 240 million world-line broadband subscribers. And our core technical strategy is the cloud network convergence. And our overall objective for our operational goal is the high-scale, excellent customer experience, and high efficiency. So we introduce some integrated operation from a network to the network, network to the cloud and IT together. And also we offer efficient scheduling and the fast response to our customers and also high safety operating ability. So one of the most important core platform is what we called cloud network operating system. So CNOS is the unified platform which can control, all the heterogeneous resources, including the network and the cloud, and also expose our network capability to uplayer applications. So actually, it has four major components. The first is the cloud network controller. It can just collect the data directly from the devices, underlying devices, and can make the configuration, configuration automatically. And also, once it could collect the data from the device, it will send to our digital team system immediately. So our digital team will restore the real-time operational data and get the correlated relationship between the virtual and the real-world infrastructure. And the third is integrated to graduate system. It can give it. gives the four analysis of the computing and the network. And it can give the decision for each application with its appropriate resource pool and the network paths. And also, we have the network LRM. This is an intelligent engine, very important for our system, to make operation intelligent and decision-making automatically. So with the help of our CNOS, we have achieved autonomous level from layer 3 to layer 4, and the whole architecture has involved from plus AI to AI native. And the next part, I will introduce some of the key technologies. The first is high guaranteed software-defined technology. That is, we have developed both the controller and the architecture by ourselves, including the access controller, metro controller, bipolar controller, and the DC controller. And with these controllers, we adopt model-driven service configuration and inbound flow-in information detection, and also we use some dynamic guarantee using SFV6. So we can use this, our own built controller to detect all, to get all the data from the infrastructure and very in real time. The next one is the digital team. As I mentioned, when all the data had collected from the controller, it will direct send to the digital team. So the digital team can collect all the data from different controllers, Then it can have the cross-domain, cross-network, and cross-cloud network data, and it can help expose our APIs for applayer applications. Like the remote tree view, it can give the view combined with the customer level and the production level and network level, it can help our network afford detection. And another important part is a network-large model. We have started developing our network large model ever since 2003. And we have, this is domain-specific large model, and we have built this model based on 60 billion tokens of our high-quality data set. And we have built this model. We also have built model metrics, including our language model, our time series model, and several task models. And also, we have offered four process tools, including the training, inference, intelligent architecture, etc. And for the roadmap of the agent, we have underlined several phases. At the first phase, we are doing the co-pilot, including the knowledge co-pilot and operation co-pilot. And the last year, we have deployed our setup, our own agents, including network management, maintenance, and the network optimization. So here, up to now, we have already have over 1,000 agents in our production. network all national-wide have deployed in our operational network. So in the process of our agents, we really find we have some challenges we need to solve. For example, we need to define the agent quality. We need to monitor the full cycle of our agent and gives the agent very clear responsibility. And it's a very clear responsibility. boundaries for each agent, and we need to define its authority. And also, for the security, and it's also very important, we need to get the risk of the security, and also for multi-agent communication, it's also very important. So we name digital employees for our carrier-grade agent. And up to now, we have over 1,000 digital employees in our network. So how to make these digital employee in reality, here we introduce some agent ops. The agent ops includes the agent employee platform that he manages agent, and another one is ACS, agent communication system. Then here, the DEP, digital employee platform, just acts like HR, it will clarify the agent's job responsibility and can do separation with humor and the machine privilege and onboarding off-boding transfers and some audit and traceability and the performance view. And for ACS, it is based for multi-agent communication and collaboration. So it can do agent-agent adjustment. agent naming, and agent assurance, etc. So combined with Z2, we think we make the agent operational in our network. And we also add agent possibility in our network, including the agent, the RM, and the MCP, and we just define many kinds of metrics in the system. And we add, we get these metrics from open telemetry protocol. Okay, then I have several examples to share. The first one is the entrance application APP named the Xiaochi. This application is now becomes our entrance of our employee. This is based our Quotan and AI infrastructure and it is a unified portal for both co-pilot and agents and also redefines our personal office official interaction. So up to know, over 50,000 of employees are using it in our daily lives. And another one is AI agent for home broadband self-service. And when we introduce AI in our new system, when the workflow will be different. When we get a question from the user like, My Home Broadband is unable to connect to the internet. What's the reason? Then, the agent will first retrieve some related data from its database. And it will also query some real-time APIs. For example, if the account count is okay and what's the status of the optical mode and etc. And it also will combine with the prompt. And then in the end, it can generate the answer step by step and it is easy to use as a guideline for our employee to fix the problem. So with this new method, it has just changed the traditional way that we can, you use for our digital employee. First thing is the task complication. With this way, we can have the closer loop problem and the decision to help our employee. And the user interact, it is user-centric neutral language, and also it can behave dynamically and automatically. Also, it can improve by itself, very different. very quickly. So actually, it has largely improved our efficiency by 30%. So overall, we think it is very important to add agent ops in our operational network. So we also still need to define some more protocols, including the agent communication, observability and security, and make our operational more intelligent. Thank you all. for your conservative. Thank you very much for the great presentation. So you mentioned you're one or maybe the biggest operator in the world and you are on all fronts. fronts speak about digital twin at the end level 4 LLM AI agent open telemetry MCP all of these so what do you expect from the ITFS what should we be solving in a standard way out of all the things that you're mentioning here if you had to give top three priorities right because I see a lot of side meetings about some of the things you're doing So top three priorities for the ITF, please. Thank you, Bema. Very good question. Yes, it's a wide they have a lot of topics. And I think what we really need right now is how to make our agent operational and manageable. This is the most important part for us now. And also for digital team, for network collection, collection data, we also need some new features that it needed and we will discuss some more in offline. One more question if I may. Okay. So whenever you say agent more manageable, what does it mean? Is this discovery? Is this capability discovery? Is this the communication? Can you expand a little bit? Yeah. Because actually, maybe it's it. Yeah. goes in all direction with side meetings. We're taking over by side meetings, discussing something about AI agent, you name it. Okay. Thank you. That is what I mean is how to identify the agents, the agent responsibility, the boundaries, authority, and the traceability. I think all of these are very important for us. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Good afternoon. This is Foyang from China Mobile. Today, the topic is to share some thoughts on the challenge and practice of the operations of our IP network. So a brief introduction of China Mobile. More than 1,000 million of customers. of customers and 2 million of 5G base stations and more than 1 million of servers. So that's a big number. So by that number, we can understand why we need to have automated operations. One is for the better service of our quality of for our customers. Another one is the cost done. So consider to these years. These years, we have a great investment on the network, mainly on the air-related network. And the other one is complexity is brought from the convergence of the network and the cloud. That's because if we consider there are some routers running on some servers or watching machines, that will be quite complex. Last one is the AI advancements just give us an opportunity to have more smart operations. So there are several challenges for the AI ops. AI is driven by data. So data is like the field of the AI. So the first problem is the data. The data comes from the different silos and they are in consistent and they are overwhelming. So with that, that is the number one. The number two is we need some more efficient way of communication. This is comes, if the data comes from multi-wenders, normally we need to have a long journey to standardize the data format and the data content. And so we also, if we take example, if there are something happening in the network, so there will be many iterations for the controller to gather data from the network and then do analysis and then go drill down. There are many iterations here. So that's what I mean, the lack of communication. So the last one, we cannot solve in our network. But most of such kind of things will be solved by the process of the operation. So about the AI operation, our AI operation, there are two objectives. One is to have the supporting our customer groups. And the other one is to have better qualities that we have mentioned just before. All of the objectives has been compressed of three loops from the customer requirements loop and across the customer requirements has been broken down to the cross-domain services. Then it's broken down to the cross-domain services. to the intradomine resources. And all of the loops has been supported by 40 years of intelligence. One is from device to network level, to service level, to the business levels. And we have followed some general architecture of the operations, which is the main objective is to the... The objective is just turn the data into the information, then to the information into the insight by the machine learning engine. And that step we get the insight and take some actions. But here, the most of actions needs human confirmation to prevent some of the AI hallucination, such kind of issues. issues. So let's take two examples of how we are doing the operation. From the picture we can see on the left side that says we are doing the data collection from various type of data. The most important that is time series data. That is most for the performance. And we also have some kind of alarm and ticket and topology, put them together into the middle. That is a model. You know, model part, we have some of domain-specific models, which is just trained for the telecom communication. And there are also some of some agents like here. We just... just build up some of function specific agents to get some to get some to get some insight on those kind of data. So there are those kind of agents just output with some anomalies like the metric event. And we also can do the performance and the fault prediction based on this. Sometimes we can also have the root cause analysis on this. But after root cause analysis, we sometimes we can come up with the solution by the system. And the last one is we need human confirmation before we can take action. More than 50% of the fault and those kind of things have already been handled by the system just in several minutes in most cases. The second example is we have the SRA6 past planning. The main process is that we get the data from current data and we also have some prediction on the future of the network of status based on prediction. And based on the current network status and predicted status, we are doing the path calculation and hopefully to get the best path and stable path. So here the most important thing is this is different. This is different. have some difference with the example one, first example. This is this past planning is almost in real time. We have, we have about more than 1,000 of the path per second calculation abilities. So, so when I talk about, So when I talk a lot of the data, and so the data becomes very important. So I have some story, have one story, and that why we should move forward on this. The story is today the network infrastructure itself has a lot of the computational abilities. this is very different from what we have in years ago. So if in that case, the network devices itself can do some of analysis. And the relation between the network devices and the network controllers, they can be some of peer-to-peer relationship. to peer relationships. So that means if we have some intelligence on the devices and we have intelligence on the controllers, they can talk in a more smart way. What they are talk is kind of semantic communication. So with that in mind, we can see this will eliminate the long time to standardize the, for example, the telemetry data and the sometimes we can also can compress the data quite a lot. So that's my idea of today. So here comes three open questions. One question is, should we consider the roles of the network device? We consider the roles of the network device. or devices and the network controllers in this error. Do we need a new framework? A question two is, should we consider to do a semantic communications between the network device and the controller? So question three is, should we define the data, like for example, the insights or the more precisely the insight or the information communicated between the network devices and the controller? So that's the three open questions. That's all for me today. Thank you. So while waiting for, I would say, for the other, if you have any comment or question, I have one clarification for you. So yeah, I think I see that you have all the answers to the question from Benoit, from previous presentations. So that's really good to have, I'd say, concrete examples of, I would say, real work that may be explored or investigated. So further discussion may be needed. I have just one question about your first question there. When you are seeing that we may need an entire QM framework, is there really a really something? Is there really something which is specific to the EI here? What are, I would say, the key point that are really new and novel here that we don't, we cannot handle with the current tools we are having today? Yeah, yeah, that's, that's a question. So basically, I think we need to consider a role between the network controller and the network devices. That's what I think. That's because different roles. Because today we define roles as a controller, just gather the data from the device. The device is some kind of passive. Okay. Thomas. Yes, hello. Thomas Graf, Swisscom. I really like your slides. I think you're really pointing on the importance on getting the right data from the network, focusing on the semantics, and I fully agree on the that on your questions like questions two and three, I think, I believe I can answer that. I think we already have at IDF quite some good protocols, like where we define the schema, which is Yang, which has a known data taxonomy and also has capabilities on the semantics. And I fully agree that basically we need efficiency in terms of how we are collecting data, how we are processing, how we are processing. and also how we are indexing it. And currently we are trying to tackle that problem in the animal working group. So it would be great to collaborate on that. Yeah, thank you. Thanks. Then, where is Cisco? First, the presenter just before you and you, and you, those are great slides, great presentations. And it feels like from a network management perspective, we're struggling some time to what do we have to solve? To me, your slide four is very obvious, but maybe if we are having more of those presentations in the future, perhaps we should call it out like a section that says, what do we expect from ITF? So it's very obvious because it feels like people don't really see it if they never really run a network, but for the people that have run networks, it's very obvious, but maybe for future, call it out what to expect from my ITF. But again, this is great presentation. Thank you. Thank you for that. Well, hi everyone, I'm Jing Zhao from China Unicom. Today I will introduce the China Unicom's intelligent operation and maintenance practices and reflections. Well, first I want to introduce the overview of China Unicom's IP network. As a major integrated telecommunications, carrying China, we provide the Internet, we provide the domestic and international communication and digital information services. So the composition of the core IP network architecture including China 169 Backbone Network, IP Metro Plan Air Network, and CUI Industrial Network, Smart Metroplan, Air Network, and IPBR Network B, and the others. So to manage such a large scale, and complete IP network efficiently, we aim to keep the network with relevance, it has made capability for more intelligent operation and maintenance. So after doing more and more research work, we collected the co-point points from some key aspect across three we have. The first is pre-invent. I want to introduce the pinpoints in network simulation. The first is cross-layer co-sumulation. The problem is we have difficulties in physical IP application collaboration simulation, making it impossible to build full-stick models for complex environment. The current state is pouring layer coordination due to leak of unified, and logical-alignment course practicals. And the next is log-in-rude generation. We counteractly and automatically generate simulation rules for diverse, scenarios, and dynamic demands. The current state is mirror and similar automated simulation configuration is slow and infractable and able to hand complex networks. network elements and practicals. The third is insufficent data mode fusion, gap between macro-level business for forecasting and the micro-level device validation. And the first is challenging in real-time performance and accuracy. We cannot meet the requirements for real-time secure realization and zero-air validation in large secure network. And the next is in-event. I want to introduce the pinpoint in traffic monitoring. The first problem is leak of deterministic end-to-to-end localization. Because in large, secure and complex network, current telemetry technicals such as AFIT fail cannot achieve end-to-to-end monitoring due to insurface due to insurface amount of vendor support. Comparing with the single vendor sales and cross dorms, walls will need more and more meantime to repair due to inconsistent talent treatment data. And the next problem is real-time multi-dimensional analyze base of massive traffic remains and achievable. Because the full method relies on sampling and high processing on board analyses need high resource overhead. And the next problem is balance both in traffic change detection, because IPBC monitoring suffers from hydard attribute degradation caused by cross-domen IP changes and net translation. And the next problem is mismatch between network monitoring and user experience, because Our current methods are IP-centric monitoring, not application aware. Without identifying specific application, the network cannot provide different devices. And the next point is post-event event in live network operation and maintenance issues. The first is long-tail risk exists after network cutover. Impropriation or code defects often cause periodic faults, weeks or even monse, after deployment. And next problem is abrupt changes in traffic through direction are hard to detect. Configuration changes in app layer applications cause IP traffic surges or shifts, leaving the network layer only able to response painably. And the next problem is the cost of response and felt-travershooting exceed high, because complex felt, trap-shooting still relies on miracle's severity and cross-departmental coordination became fully automated method. So to address traditional Aboriginal maintenance challenges and And he has network's availability, networks must be equipped with comprehensive resonance capability across the full life cycle. Here are some capabilities that we hope the network want to achieve. And based on the analyte this, we carried out some practices. to address these challenges. Well, the first is IPNative simulation systems to address the core challenges of insurface high, five-delate dynamic construction capability in network simulation. We propose a digital network architecture driven by integrated numerical simulation and emulation. The capability of our system, two. The first is deduction analysis and dynamic rubble in cut-over simulation. Cut-over simulation requires configuration-level simulation. Extracts out-term operation forward the existing and stick-BC the robot, and excruced step from live-network steps. and unmanned operation for step-by-step impact analyses. The second is intelligent network traffic prediction. Traffic analysis requires numerical simulation, build a spherical, temporal, deep, natural networks for end-to-end network traffic analogies. The issue real-time outerfall traffic beyond the predicted region to guard the operation. And the next to the network. And the next practice is IP network traffic monitoring and analyze this platform. To address the core invisibility challenge in network traffic monitoring, the platform provides an end-to-end IP traffic monitoring and analyze this system covering homebound network, mobile network, their network, and application. The capability of our platform, two, the first is mail-dormone for state collection. collection and make cross-profession bears for end-to-end mail-dormant traffic quality data collection. And the second is routine monitoring and analyze this. Establish routine analytees to turn invisible traffic into visible digital metrics. And the next is IPV6 capability assessment. Compare IPV4 and IPV6 live network performance. identify deployment bentness and support IPV6 plus roll out with data. And the next is Granulet Traffic Fluinsite. Refine traffic analyzes to prevent-co-level support interdormant settlement planning or service for forecasting. And the next practice is intelligent computing central network operations this platform. This system divides end-to-end intelligent operation, control, and resource optimization for intelligent computing survives survives, will three core capabilities of computing network convergency layer. The first is full spectrum perception, multi-dimensional moitering, full-domen topology, topology, dimensional field availability, real-time male second-level traffic, loosely metrics and hardware resource monitoring. And the next is FOS-Ceneral's test. Full-Ceneral's business port covered the entire process of task execution, including large-scale training and large mode-friend training. For example, on-demand-demand computing. computing resources schedule. And the third is meltment optimization. The first is large model traffic prediction and simulation. So based on the platform, we built an intelligent computing center operation maintenance counter knowledge base. Develop an in-house operation and contraigent agent based on re-informment learning and ELR models and enable the implementation of of customs, operations, maintenance, control scenarios through recovery opening. Well, that's our practices. If you are interested in our work, please reach out to us. Thank you for listening. Any question for a role? Yeah, maybe answer the same question as mentioned by Bunwa for the first presentation. If there are three, I would say, topics that you think that the ATF should work on? Can you just list those if it's possible? If you thought about ITF, what do you think you want idea to work on? Our presentation is after doing more and more research work on. work from the live network. So we collected the call pinpoint for the intelligent operation. So we want the network to have some capabilities to enhance the network to enhance the network's reliability. That means the network. That means the network. me to have the relevance of capabilities. Thank you. Yeah, Wes, you can start. You have the slide control. Great. Thanks very much. Good day, everybody. I'm Wes Hardeker and together with some people that have helped me out, Joe Adlia and Lerz Johan-Liemann I'm going to go over sort of the project that we've been. the project that we've been working on for the past six months or so discussing. I think most people already knew it because we presented in multiple places in the past. But our goal, so I'm going to go over the background first. What is the goal of this effort and what was the process that we used to try and sort of collect some information? And then finally, you know, what were the suggestions and results that we had going forward? So really quickly, for those that don't remember, you know, the DNS is why used in all the ITF. And that means that it integrates with a lot of other protocols. It's discussed in a lot of areas. And because of that, you know, it's hard to sort of collect and navigate through all the discussions that we have. DNS working groups in the ITF have happened in many forms and at many levels. They happen in very specialized groups. They happen in very large groups. That has been split in multiple ways, you know, over the years. So there was a lot of hallways discussions. on is the current structure correct or are there better ways to, you know, organize DNS work within the IETF? So is there a problem, you know, is the one large working group working? DNSOP specifically is the one that was discussed the most. You know, do people like the smaller, tighter ones, things like that? So the IESG asked me if I could, you know, see if we could find some common opinions that existed among, you know, all the participants. Are you able to hear me okay, by the way? I should have asked that. Yes. Okay, good. So the approach we used is starting last September or so, we gathered feedback. We did that in a number of ways. I'll go over that in a minute. We reviewed all of that feedback. It came out to 118 pages that I made my co-conspirators, you know, read through. And then our goal was to identify commonality. Was there sort of a notion that people had agreement about, you know, one direction or another? And then from that, you know, we crafted some recommendations after reading all of that and having some discussions. We put the document in an internet draft form. I think Joe Abley was the one that suggested that, saying that was, of course, the most familiar documentation that we're used to. And then discussing the results and eventually this is going to give to the IESG and at which point we're done, right? So we are here today. We've done all of the loop up until today. And then sort of discussing the results has been happening on the mailings. has been happening on the mailing list a little bit, and then it will happen this week. And then, you know, we expect to hand it off. Our goal is sort of the authors of the draft that came out of this was to be as non-biased as possible. And I think we definitely achieved that we really didn't have personal opinions on the best way to go forward. So anyway, we started with information gathering, and that sort of came from four different places. There was a public mailing list discussion, of which I threw out a lot of questions for people to think about. I got some private email to me that was anonymized before handing it to Joe and Lehman. There was a lot of hallway discussions of which I took notes, and there was, you know, a discussion in the ops area group back in November as well. As I mentioned, it was, you know, aggregated together with 118 pages plus 30 minutes of video from the ops area that we reviewed. So out of that, we tried to identify some commonality. I'm trying not to use the word consensus. If I slip, I apologize. There's a few people that took issues with the word consensus, just because this is not the only normal IETF process or, you know, things like that. So one of the things that came out is that the one large working group struggled to handle the breadth of document types. Not that it was broken per se, but it was not as efficient as people wanted it to be. In particular, they thought that integrating, you know, the concepts of both operations as well as development work, as well as, you know, figuring out where new work should go. Overloaded the process and caused some elements to slow down where other ones, you know, where they could go faster if they were smaller bodies of work. Again, not my personal opinions. This is what we took out of reading all that material. So the other commonality is a lot of people thought maybe it's time to try splitting protocol development into operational. and operational maintenance because they can be different and i'll get more to that in a minute and the third really common theme was that a dns dispatch function you know would really provide some additional benefits i'll go over that in a minute as well um the big you know note is everyone agreed that working group structures or any structure cannot solve the human problems right there's always going to be cases where uh the area directors and the working group chairs and things like that will have to handle individual corner cases so there is no structure that's perfect and that's okay that's that's that's something that people will that the leadership will have to deal with finally different types of drafts require sort of different types of management and that was sort of a subtle theme buried in a lot of the comments that you know especially operational related drafts do need to be possibly processed or handled differently in terms of its flow from developmental management that doesn't doesn't mean that you know one group group couldn't do it but it'd be nice if they could isolate those into various things and then narrow chartered groups are needed for hard problems and they do work well i think del egg was the quintessential example that people have pointed to recently is that really needed its own group and people agreed with that i don't think anybody said delig didn't deserve its own group um i don't know if you guys can hear the sirens outside my i don't know what's going on there um so the last two were crossed out because since publishing the original document i think that we've lost sort of the commonality and so there's some people that think that dnsop should be closed down just to signal a clean break and other people think that it should just be rechartered and i'm not sure that there's a commonality in that decision and that's okay well you know i'm going to leave that up to the asg sorry folks it's your job now um you know to decide what to do there so this is sort of where some elements are the lack of commonality one thing i should note is that there's more detail in the draft i recommend everybody read the draft i'm going sort of through the highest level points not not in the intricate detail uh so as i said some people think it should be rechartered or some people think it should be closed um personally as i said i i don't really care one thing that people noted is that dnus op is already sort of the right name um so you know i think we called a dnsd dev and dns proto in the in the in the in the document just because we needed to name it something and some people found that confusing as well fair enough um in the end there's a development you know there's a protocol development group and an operational group some people suggested maybe dns ops with an s at the end is sort of the in a way forward if you do when it recharter um i will leave the bike painting the bike shed painting to the a esg everybody needs to attend every group anyway there's a lot of people that said i don't care if you split it i'm going to have to go to them both anyway but other people said well that may be true but i care more about development i can follow that you know more directly whereas you know ops i can let it sit for two weeks and because it's not my core or some people believe that they would only attend you know one session out of two or something like that um so there's there's a there's a bunch of people and i myself fall into the category of i'm going to go to them all anyway that's going to be you know what my need but not everybody held that view so that was an interesting discrepancy and then the other thing is that we received very little feedback about some of the more um disparate groups like dnss and and rejects and things like that that are sort of more on the fringes away from the dns course so we didn't we didn't define any conclusions from that just because we didn't have enough information to define to really come to a conclusion so now i'm going to get into the larger recommendations and i say larger because i did leave the smaller ones to the there's more details and a few more recommendations in the internet draft but these are i think the bigger takeaways uh so first off recommendation one as i indicated split dns development from operations um there's a number of reasons that people thought that that that would be good that we you know collected feedback about they actually thought that the processing of dns related work in the aetf would improve it would be more efficient than it is today um and you know the downside is that you have to define the line between them which is both really really really important and really really impossible again getting back to you know you can't solve the human problems that's something for the area directors and the chairs to work through um our thoughts and sort of the starting question like if you're going to consider a new draft where should it go maybe does it require special processing are you introducing a new r type that's going to require a new code versus this is a new algorithm or something can be one sort of a starting point again there is no perfect line but that was a reasonable one to sort of start it's obviously never that something um but this does allow the groups to be managed differently so with different management of how you know sessions are run or how groups are run and what the requirements of operational versus development are there's always been the long you know standing question of should there be running code and maybe that's true for both of without just using that as an example where each group can think about you know what is their requirements independently how long are the presentation is going to be what are the meetings going to look like and things like that um we didn't we didn't craft any conclusions for what that should be it just we there was people that noted in our discussions that that would enable those groups to behave differently um so we're not crafting how we're just saying people said that it would be helpful uh second was to create a dns this dispatch group i think this this achieved you know most people thought that this would be a good thing there are some downsides it adds another step in the process yet there's another another working group slot that'll need up more agenda time so we thought long and hard about that and i will say leman and joe came up with the idea is better than i did of well maybe the right solution so this is a little bit of our thinking ahead of how would we solve the problems that people brought up to us and opinions um so we thought well de dispatch should do as much as possible online right there's over the mailing list to be number one or doing interim meetings so ideally dns dispatch itself a will not slow down much because if it happens online it will not be every three months and b it won't take up agenda time whether that's realistic or not i don't know but that was our suggestion um the other thing to note is that we you know a dispatch does not necessarily mean a decision right if a dispatch you know conclusion out of the community said go to ops and it's a recommendation to authors to go there and it may be that you know ops with an s or proto or you know whatever the bike shed names happen to come out those groups may require that it goes through dispatch first or not that's up to them but but it'll still be a recommendation there's still going to be an adoption process within each of those groups it does not circumvent that that that normal procedure within a particular working group if that makes And then, you know, the other thing is the dispatch group might be a nice gating place of, you know, this draft really isn't well-defined enough or, you know, whatever, that we can't make a decision and that actually helps alleviate the burden of making the drafts that get to the adoption within a group to be possibly better framed. Recommendations three, group and people management is critical. A lot of people said that the The 80s, I think for a while now have been getting the chairs together before meetings and having discussions about what's going to happen at IETF meetings and that's critical. And a lot of people said that that has been very, very valuable. And, you know, the other thing to note is that DNS dispatch chairs are going to have a challenge on their hands to, you know, make sure that things happen in a timely matter. So they're going to need to be some strict and strong chairs to pull off that working group. So if the IESB decides to form a dispatch group, they're going to need to pick chairs very carefully. And then finally, the resulting working groups have to be flexible, right? So just because something ends up in opposite, it should be the rare case where it might need to move to the other group, maybe as through the development process, you know, it turns out that it really wasn't the right place. The chairs need to work together, which means that the chairs of, the possible three groups that I've been alluding to, you know, need to, you know, need to to be able to communicate freely and not do turf battles and those types of things. Human problems cannot be solved. I can't, you know, sort of stress that enough. So that's where we are today. That's, again, those are the three largest recommendations, or not all of them. The draft, I hope, is fairly well, easy to read. People have said that they, they thought that the format worked really well. We will provide the final AD, probably at the end of this ID, at the end of this work to the ADs. I don't know if I can get my acronyms right and you know it's going to be up to them we we the three authors hold no bars to you know what happens next that's up to the the people with the paint brushes to paint the bike shed and the ice j me choose not to act they may we're certainly going to listen to feedback received this week FYI just two hours ago i published a new copy of the document actually probably only one hour ago with just minor updates based on what i've heard mostly about wording and things that and somebody wanted the initial call out of the post that med did a long time ago to go and do an appendix so that's in there as an appendix just for history tracking and things like that with that that is my final slide unless people have questions for me or feedback they want to give to med not me med yes andre yes andre i see uh chair so i have three thoughts when i through this presentation one is um i actually think this is commonality that different groups also needs different types of people even though there's a world so you said it's not a commonality i think it is a commonality that but it's not only people it's also a different kind of focus because right now the dns all requires a focus that is very broad and when we split the groups into different types i might focus more on one thing and less focus on on the other thing and that's the thing that runs out very quickly for most of the people yeah apologies i think you and i actually agree because what i tried to state what you said that they do that i do a lot of people thought that they would be handled differently and the types of people that might attend or differently um not everybody agreed with that though some people you know disagreed i think with you and me to put it that way right or at least my interpretation of everybody's comments but thank you yeah i think you said this so my second uh second observation is that dns dispatch for people not that uh accustomed with iatf and the process here versus here it might be very confusing that the dns dispatch says yes and then the DNS obsessed no so i don't have a solution for this but i think this this might be a common theme for people new to iatf that they will get very confused what's what's happening yeah so actually the the draft talks a little bit more about that because either joe or liman it wasn't my idea um we would expect a shepherding kind of write-up as well out of that and so somebody it it would be helpful if there's sort of the DNS dispatch had sort of a shepherd mechanism you know should be very lightweight because otherwise you'll wipe out the shepherds to help people through that understanding and recognize the next step as adoption through a group i mean don't we have that today within dispatch as it is i mean it's no different right and that's my first point that the dns dispatch your chairs they'll probably burn out very quickly it will be very demanding task to steal through all the new ideas and say no to a lot of people and it might not be the uh the best rewarding job of them all so don't dns op chairs already have to have that burden plus more yes that's my okay it's checking um and and and last ron argues that i think that you said this is like a human problem to you know like splitting dns op into a lot of small groups will not solve the human problems um i i hope that uh we are on the right track with the dns op right now and we would like to keep doing what we are doing even if even if we keep dnsope even if you split the ns op into more small groups to uh keep that increased velocity that we are having now fair enough i'll leave that that decision at ned not me but yes and thank you for doing this job and writing it's all done i'm just the messenger did i mention that yet i benno hoverhreiner and nalibs linders lindex lindex lindex lindex lindon dine zop coach here it's yeah about the dispatch um i was thinking dispatch group or it's rather or for me at least a function and you can split it different ways and you can also have it between the two or denis op and denis protocols i don't know what the name will be these chairs or any other split i don't know because currently we have previously we called it sometimes liaison there was a couple of years ago recently we call it the dispatch but also the amount of work is a little bit fluctuating sometimes there's nothing to dispatch or to discuss and sometimes this time there are two jobs i'm just curious how that work will be directed and be balanced between the dispatch or the current chairs or the chairs between the new group and the existing group so for me for continuity and balancing the load i would suggest or consider something like having the dispatch function between the chairs or maybe within dina's op whatever um and i think it can be better well more consistently managed with my perspective and it is currently in some way in some wording in denis op uh chart already right so it's in dana's up already i i i'm going to be unfortunately blunt but i'm quoting a lot of other people a lot of people find that dnsop doing the dispatch work was very frustrating for them because it impacted other work it took away from a lot of discussions that should have been on the work of the working group itself i'm i'm literally quoting don't yell at me just the messenger and so i think the largest close to unanimous aside from possibly chairs was that a separate dispatch group would be beneficial to the community now having said that is it 100% true no because we didn't hear from everybody that's impossible there's no iETF document that ever hears from anybody um so i'll leave that there i mean i'm just trying to defend you know what i heard from the public more than more than anything else i think your notion which i didn't consider is could you get the dns op and dns called chairs to split that role as well in another online group and have them chair two groups that's an interesting idea so yeah thanks yeah you already mentioned something as a mailing list or for interim virtual intermeeting meetings and that can be run by the new chairs i'll leave that to the aESG to paint that bike shed thank you uh thanks west this is d' i like your overview and i have not read the draft yet as context but i will um the i thought it was really interesting in dns op this morning that we've got to a short presentation about protective dns and i think of that as a kind of a wild west thing that is huge right now lots of people want to make money with it lots of people are doing free things with it and it's just crazy what's going on there can we use that or are there other other good examples to see how dispatch would work like do you have to have classic examples for those of us that want to do something tangible instead of to say there is a dispatch will it work well for that for instance or or other examples from anyone in the community are interesting but this week i'd like us to talk about how would we run one of those examples that we clearly saw people said don't fit in dns up now where a bunch of us are like where does it fit them no that is a fantastic question and i have two answers for you because we thought a lot about that right is and we have and we actually went through outstanding proposals in dns op and tried to see where they would align so we actually went through that exercise if you go read the document we actually have some advice in there on on how uh there's a lot more advice than i can put it in my slides jo ably wrote up three example dispatch functions that you might want to go read his it does i'll give him the entire credit for that we word smith a little bit um but they're actually really good examples you know to go look at but But one of the other things we talked about would be possibly recommending the AESG to hold some sample dispatch type things to see how it would work before they decide exactly what they're going to do, you know, have it have a sample DNS dispatch session to see how it would work out. We didn't put that recommendation into the document. It seemed a little too far reaching for what we could draw from a conclusion. Cool. Thanks all of you guys for doing the document. Okay. the DNSD co-chair. I like the idea of a DNS dispatch a lot and to expand a bit on the brainstorming that you just did with Ben. I also had some thoughts to volunteer the current dns chairs to be the chairs of the dispatch thing and you were mentioning a deaf and off. We have a bunch more. So we have DNSD, we have ADD, we have defaulted down, we have Delac. If we go to a scheme where we have even more focused on, we have even more focus smaller working groups will volunteer all these people to be the DNS dispatch chairs now then you run into this problem now suddenly you have like i don't know 20 chairs how you're going to organize that and then i'm thinking well do something like the directories do so you have rotate yeah yeah then you need someone who does the rotating yeah and we actually talked a lot about at one point in an early version we said that the DNS directorate should be considered you know of use in particular by dns dispatch and stuff like that but we didn't want to overload dns dispatch and we didn't really find that that that was good that was our thought not a conclusion we could really draw so we ended up dropping that from the ideas but it is something for everybody to consider but um directorates can get overloaded i know i keep doing security area directors directorates more frequently than it's a lot of work we just put it that way so the dns director those are volunteers right so i would not want to put this onto the dns director at people but it's really form a new group out of the chairs right okay uh so yeah thank you thank you thank you as i would say for um yeah for sharing with us the um the conclusion of this work and i think it's important actually to uh to thank the um the whole I would say all the Dennis people who are really excited about this work the positive I would say feedback you have received to constructive discussion this is really um I found it really exemplary the way this this this happened and the all the um the feedback I would also to thank Jo Ably and then large Juan who I would say helped you to um to digest all the feedback received and really special thank you um this for accommodating and they would say i would say for this consultation i'm really impressed that the plan that we had initially when i started this consultation we are really we are we are we have met all the this mild so thank thank you again and that's for uh for the work i will be waiting for the end of this week and then you will be releasing the the new version of the draft then my plan is to formally conclude the the consultation and then start discussion with the asg members how we'll be starting implementing not exactly what we're will have there but this we will there are some logistics and i would say some other aspects would be taken into into account and we will be keeping i would say the community and informed great thanks bye all have a good day all all right with that we are done Third?