Hello, good afternoon, good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Shenzhenzhen, I hope all of you have good journey and it's the cast working group meeting and we are Pong Liu and Adrian as the chair so first is a note well for every meeting so you are agreed to follow the idea process and the policies and just remind that every participant I expected to have good behavior and to show your respect to your colleagues and if you have any questions about the either contribution please see the and if you have any problems with the behavior of others for instance in some harassment policy you can connect the ambitism so just to say your questions and any concerns so the audio understanding video are recorded in the ITF policies and for any advice please talk to the chairs or the 80s so some meeting tips for the in-person participants make sure to sign into the session via data tracker and I see a lot of people here but there's not enough people just in the on-site data trackers. So join the mic queue and the participant in show of your hands. And just to remind, keep the audio and video off if not using the on-site version. And for the remote participants, make sure your audio and video are off unless you are chairing or presenting. So please help to take the minutes. The chair just sends the also send the links with the chat box. So this is the agenda for our meeting this time. We have two working group document and also have four upcoming documents, including the OEM security model and the metrics related one. And we will discuss the protocol applicability and the optical applicability and the optical with cats. And if there is time, we also have some individual drafts, but please just pay attention to the time and adjust your presentation. John Han, are you in the room? John Han? Yeah, thanks. Could you send me your slides again? Can you email them to me? Your presentation. I want to say that in general. No. Don't have slides. Do you? Do you? He didn't have? He didn't. Maybe he's not. Do you? Is the Hanzenzen here? Did you send your slides? Yes? Yes. Maybe we have a order. Yes. So I just go ahead. Yeah. Okay. So here's a working group. the working group documents that centers, we just send the requirements, use case, and framework to the IESG, and we have one active draft about the custom metrics. Need more discussion. And so the milestones here, we just to follow. One is that we will submit the carometrics to the IESG. If we get. with consumers on it. Okay, sorry. Anyone has comments on the agenda? Okay, so we go to the presentation. So the first one. Framework, Cheng. Hello, everyone. I'm Chung Lee from Huawei. So I'm really happy to have this opportunity to share the latest progress of our CAD framework document. Next, please. Okay, I'll control you. So basically, as usual, like we only have two parts in my presentation. The first one is about a change since the last ITF meeting. And the second part is about next step. Next, please. No, no. That kind of work. The good news is that we have passed the working group last call with strong from everyone. So thank you so much. And right now, we have also addressed the IETF last call review comments from different different errors. For example, the comments from Tommy Pauli, he provides the comment from TSV Art. Right. So we also thanks to Thomas for his review from Gen Art and also Linda from the security and RTG error. And also we are waiting for the Guyan's, you know, confirmation of his comments. comments if we address it or not. And that's the only comments left that we need to confirm here. Also, we thank Giuseppe for his early review comments from the OSP area. And because I'm crazy, I was very busy to, you know, prepare for this ITM meeting and the social events tomorrow. So I special thanks to Matt to hold a pen of editing the drops from like 19, revision 19 to revision 22. Yeah, thanks to him. Next please. And the next step is quite easy because we have just nearly all the comments right now. So we only need to get a confirmation from Guyan. And then we will send the document to the IESG last call and we believe that we will that we will pass all the, we adjust all the comments because mainly, you know, we only receive some minor, you know, comments. Like there are no so major considerations regarding this document. So thanks to all. And hopefully we can publish this document as NFC in the next, like before next meeting maybe. Yeah, thank you. Comments. Thank you, Charlem. Thank you for arranging with social for everybody as well. Our AD is super efficient and this document is on the telechat on the 2nd of April. So keep an eye on that, but should get through okay. Perfect. Thank you. So I'm happy that I save some minutes for you. Good. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. And next. Matrix. Hi, everyone. I'm from China Mobile. So I'll introduce the current progress of CASMat Matrix definition. The second, the third working group document. And yeah, next slide, please. So. So we have like two revisions since ITF 124. And here are major changes. First is the author and we want to give special thanks to Han, Han Shi, for his initial contribution to the formulation of the draft. And his colleague, Guan Ming, Zeng, and has already been, you know, have formulated, help improve the draft and taking over his work. And also on the mailing list after the previous meeting, we have had strong support from the working group that change the document type into standard track so we can, you know, register our matrix into INA. And so this time, from the past two revisions, we major at the metric registry entries for cast level one and the level two levels matrix for an request. And two notes here. So this document will not standardize level one matrix because of their, you know, this level is too diverse and it depends on the implementation for choosing what kinds of level zero matrix you want to use. And second, though, that this document would not force the choice of normalization aggregation and aggregation functions. We just give some examples to generate level one and level two matrix, but don't force them. Next slide, please. Yes, for the, you know, matrix registries for Katz, we follow some data. templates from obviously 8911 and 8912. I think these are here I special thanks to I mean Greg Merski's comment and also agents for the comments on referring, making reference to these overseas. So these two obviously give some guidelines and also format for register performance matrix. For example, like pack delay variants and also like, you know, you know, Jeter or something else. But for CAST matrix, so we follow the similar matrix registry templates with the following registered terms, like summary. Basically, it includes like an identifier, name, URI of the matrix, and the metric definitions, and the method of merriment, and the method of merriment, For example, in the matrix actively measured or passively measured or in hybrid mode. And also like a packet stream generation and traffic filtering method. And also like defining some runtime parameters and their corresponding units. And also it will cover like output with like the, you know, different types of the output and units and also their calibration method. and then some like administrate information and about the controller, about the version, et cetera, and also the comments and remarks. So basically there are six, you know, items. So next slide please. So to be continued, so we basically have five matrix here, one level two matrix and four level one matrix. So you can see the name here. The opposite number and section number will be finalized when we, and determined later on. And for the metric definition, we here, we use normalization score ran from 0 to 10 to indicate the capability of each, you know, for example, for each metric. And the data precision here, we, for this five metric, we use decimal number, the unsigned integer, represent them. Next slide, please. And then for the method of measurement, we define several reference methods from collecting raw matrix. For example, you want to collect like compute matrix. You might use like an open source tool like promenithews, or you want to collect network matrix using existing network protocols like NetConf, IP fix, etc. And also we provide some application logic and normalization logic examples. For example, for aggregation, you know, you can use where there's some and the sigmoi function for normalization, but we don't force them as I previously explained. And also some runtime parameters here, like CAS service contact instant ID, service instant IP, and Merriman window, we also define them. And then about matrix collection roles, here basically as defining the CAS framework, there are two basic components to collect matrix, the CNMA, to collect, to collect the network metric agent. And the CSMA, the service metric agent, is for collecting compute matrix. But here, as we discuss internally within co-authors, we have a small technical question for the audience. So do you think CSMA also can collect a communication matrix for computation of level one, communication or composed matrix, or level two, matrix. So we don't get consensus and also waiting for audience to provide some suggestions. And also please help review the matrix collection roles for each register matrix. Thank you. And so we also define like output, you know, scores, mantis, and calibration method. Okay, thank you. So basically all of this, next slide, please. All of these level two and the level one matrix are providing in section six. And as PUN has already mentioned in the chair slides, so for the milestone, after this meeting, we want to, you know, ask for a working group last call of this case matrix definition. So are there any important issues that are still unclear? So please mention it in this meeting and also in the list. And also, if the document is material enough, we want to go for a working group last call. So thank you all for reviewing the draw. Thank you. Okay, thank you. So do you want to ask the audience about this question? Yeah, go back. Yeah, this is a small question. I think more in details, a technical question. If you have an answer here, you can, you know, comment here. But if you need some more thoughts, please, you know, we can exchange our ideas in the list. ideas in the list. Yes. Anyone has any sounds on the questions list here? Because the draft is now stable and hasn't has any unresolved questions. Questions? Okay, maybe no one to see. No one to see? Okay, sure. Does this question need to be solved or we can? Yeah, yeah, exactly. I mean, we can, you know, ask this question in the list about the general question. Yeah. Because people may need more, you know, they want to think it, you know, deeply and give some suggestions after this meeting. We don't need to, you know, make a decision here. here. Okay, sure. So I think the draft is going to be mature and hope everyone could review this and send your comments. If there's no more comments or no big issues for it, we will chat with AD to say we could submit to the ISG review. Yeah, thank you. Okay, thank you. Okay. Hello, everyone. This is Tranjou from ZT. I will present the CATOM on behalf of the co-authors. Thank you. And this document has been presented in last meeting. And thank you for the comments from Adrian and Wei Ling and Cheng. And we have updated the version from the 4 to 5. We clarify the modifications. the motivation and the problem based on the OPSWG aerial and for the RFC 5706B from the agent's suggestion. We updated the motivation and the clarification and clarified for the CASOEM and emphasizing their functions gaps. So we also updated the CASN's NERD We divided four layers for CAS-O-M layer model. And also we updated the CAS-O-M components. For example, the SIOM and the SC-O-M and the SVC-O-M. And we updated their CAS-O-M requirements and removed their deployment consideration. First, for the motivation and problem for CATSOM, why do we lead a new OM? For example, for the traditional or the existing OEM, the monitoring OEM will stop at the egress router, and we lead to extend it into the surface instance. So for CAS, the paths must be from their network to the surface instance, and if we have no information or did not have no information, or did not monitor the surface instance, if their surface instance is offloaded or crashed, the traffic steering will fail. So this is the motivation for the new CASS OM. So this is the relationship between the case, the existing free work, use case, and the metric definition and the OM framework The CASL-3 work will provide their foundation and the basic architecture for the OM. And the use case and the requirements will provide the reason to provide their OM. And the metric, we will define the metric, and we will use the metric to monitor to monitor the, to define their metrics. metrics that we need to monitor. And so we need to define a new OM framework to monitor and ensure the cat's end-to-end service. So we will leverage the existing ITF OM standards as the following show. For example, the FC 7276, and the OfficeC 5706, and the OfficeC 570 bits of as we just mentioned the FC 6291 and the other BFD's related graphs. And for the nearing CASOM model, we defined the four layer CADOM model and the four layer CASOM model and the two parts of them is ARU and the existing, the PASOM and the existing, the PASOM is can use, we can use the existing technologies. So for the two new OM components, we will define the SIOM and the SCOM and the SVCOM. And for SIOM, it needs to provide the status monitoring. For example, we need to provide the instance availability to catch CASC And we also need to provide the metric monitoring and the metric has been divided in the metric devolution. And for as we see OM, it will need to provide the policy verification. For example, to provide the to check their classification rules, steering rules, and forwarding behavior. And for the joint performance measurement, we lead to measure the energy. the end-to-end latency. And for Marty domain, for isolation, we lead to collect, collect, collect, can relate their folios to pin-pom pointed the root cause for the trap shooting. So this are our world updates for the CAS OM and the co-authors want to make sure that if their CASOM are the sure that if the CAS OOM are the necessary work for the for CATS working groups. So we also appreciate further review and feedbacks in the mailing list. Thank you. So, any questions? Hohmian, please. Okay, thank you, Homi, Hauwai. Yeah, actually, the OAM work is very useful. Thank you for that. And we do see, you mentioned. you mentioned the L3L for maybe the network layer, right? Yeah. Yeah. But I do have some concerns on using the acronym because the previous document metric having the L0, L1, L2 metric, not the layer, but the kind of level which is specified have their rules. So I'm wondering whether we need to change a little bit on all this kind of terms. And secondly, there will be more layers in the network for the OAM to do. So we are going to evaluate if there are some additional input from network layer one and two and then try to contribute together. Again, this is very useful. Thank you. Thank you. We will to confirm the metric debilations that dropped and there are L0L1M2. Maybe we will more to confirm the metric debilations that dropped under DERRL1M2. monitor one of them were worth them so we were cleverly clarified in the further version things yeah I think that's kind of important so it's really nice to see OAM being worked on we've got to be really careful about those bits of OAM that are Katz system OAM and those bits of OAM that are for the plumbing the the network because that half doesn't belong to us, apart from maybe asking for additional requirements or behaviour. But I suspect all we need to do for the network is say OAM already exists and we build on it. And the new work that you'll be looking for is actually how do we measure what the CAT system is doing? Yeah, yeah. Thank you for your suggestion. Yeah, we mainly focus on the surface instance. and they're using the existing network OI.N. Okay, thank you. And we move to next. So, um, next, uh, security consideration. Um, uh, good afternoon. Uh, good afternoon. No, number one, and I'm Jin Yu Shi from China Unicom, and I'm very happy to do this presentation for security consideration for CASS. And the draft is now version 4. in a network and service metrics. To do this job, the CATS has several functional components. And each component has its own security issues and risks. So in this picture, we can see the security risks that the components faced. So including CSMA security, CNMA security, CPS security, CPS security, and security, and security, and CTS security and CETF security and underlying infrastructure security. And this draft is about the security risk that CASC functional components faced. And we can, we also give some suggestions about how to protect the functional security. So first, uh, let's, uh, let's talk about the CATS service metric agent security. Uh, this, uh, this, uh, this, a CAD service metric agent is responsible for collecting service capability and status. And it's, uh, faces the following, um, three potential risks. So first one is man in the middle attack. Attack attackers may forge norms or hijack links to report false metrics. Um, which can lead to incorrect past decision. And the next is false serving instance registration. Attackers can register fake instances without strict authentication causing CSMA to collect and distribute invalid metrics. And next is does attack. Attackers send a large number of requests to exhaust computing resources and make it unable to collect the legitimate metrics. So the counter mirrors are right here. So the first one is deploy CSMA in a trusted zone. So we can place CSMA inside the serving site or trusted area of the aggress forwarder, restricted direct external access via firewalls. And the second one is, rate limiting for requests. We can set a zero for single source collection request to block malicious blood request and avoid dust attack. And next is vitalist mechanism for service instances. Only collect metrics from vitalist instances. Enfor strict identify authentication for new registrations. The next component security is about CAS network metric agent security. The CNMA security is, the CNMA can collect sensitive network data. And it is it faces the following risks. So the first one is sniffing attack. Sensitive network data may be intercepted, enable attackers to identify weak nodes. And next is false metric injection. The vulnerabilities is reused protocols may allow injection of fake metrics, destroying network perception. And the third one is protocol vulnerability exploitation. So the unpassed vulnerabilities in running protocols can be exploited to infiltrated to infiltrate the CAS network. The countermeiras are as follows. So the first one is adopt security enhanced routing protocols. We can use security protocols for secure metric collection and transmission, preventing the fake metric injection. And next is employment data desensitization. Distribute only. tribute only core the serum-making metric to CPS, and masking sensitive topology details to avoid leakage. And next is regularly update NMA farewell and protocols. We can match vulnerability per ITF RFC standards and conduct quality secure scans. And the last one is increase transmission links we can use the TLS 1.3 with mutual certification authentication between CNMA and CPS to prevent the middle attack. The next one is CTS. The CTS can classify the service traffic and it faces the two potential risks. So the first one is classification rule tampering. Attackers may temper with the rule table to disquence malicious traffic has lead to made surveillance traffic, bypassing checks to enter the CAS network. And the next one is fake classification result for fraud. Without authentication on the celebration link, attackers can forge results leading to incorrect discarding or forwarding of legitimate traffic. So the counter mirrors are as follow. The first one is encrypt and incremental updates. We can store rules in AES-256 encrypt form and implement incredible updates with multi-factor authentication to prevent unauthorized modification. And next is active standby CTC cross-validation. cross-validation. We can deploy primary and backup CTCs on the ingrat forwarder and forward traffic only when both updates and are consistent along single point hijack errors. So the next is log classification operations in real time. And the last one is validation CSID and the CSCI ID, the CSI ID. So the last one, the last component security I will introduce today is cast forwarder security. And the potential risks are as follow. The first one is encryption key leakage and the stolen keys enable the encryption of lowerland traffic and theft of service requests. The next is fake service instance forwarding. The traffic is forwarded to the traffic is forwarded to. unverified fake instances leading to hijacking and the last one is flat traffic attack malicious request consume badness and computing resources so the content mirrors are as follow first one is regular key rotating and the second one is CSCI ID and certificate certificate binding and the next is traffic cleaning and the last one is overlay and underlay isolation. The security, the security I just, I just introduced is update in this version. And there are two component security we have introduced in the last version. So these two, including CPS security and underlying, infrastructure security has not changed in this version. Oh, and the service now's workflow and metric distribution workflow has also not changed in this version. So that's all for my presentation. If any question. Jim, please. Yeah, good morning. Thank you for the presentation. One thing that was going through my mind is, Is have you cross-referenced this against the security considerations that were called out in the framework document that I've got on the tele-chat coming up? And if you haven't, please take a look at that security considerations section. There's a lot of things in there that are called out in the framework that would certainly need to be taken care of. So it's difficult for me to tell just looking at this presentation. I haven't read your draft at this point. Some echoes from the remote, I think. So, yes. So the question, as I heard, it was, please look at the security considerations in the framework document and make sure that you're properly tied in with those. Okay, okay, thank you. Another suggestion is that please sort out which. which risk has a higher priority. Because you list so many risks behind the cast elements. So just to select which one is more important. Okay, okay. We'll considerate and do something in the next version. Okay, thank you. And we go to next. Thank you. Hello, everyone. This is Tren Shung again. I will present their data model for CADs on behalf of their co-authors. We also have presented this document at 123 and 124. and thank you for the comments from Joe, from Adrian and Pohn. So we also updated the draft based on these comments. First of all, we do some editory modification for the whole document after a deep review. And we also defined the terms and move some discursions to the terms section. used in Yang model, for example, in Section 1.1. And we removed the forwarding play Yang, and we want to define a young model, but it's not dependent on the solution. And we also changed the structures of the document to enhance the readability. Just like there below, we changed all the sections. all the sections and the titles and remove some of the sections. So the first update is that we updated the overview of the overview of their caste system to align with their free work and their functional components. And just like the figure we align with their free work, the components. For example, the CSMA and the CPS, data plane, control plane, and the meta plane. We defined their database and their interfaces in their new term and they're used in their young model. For example, we defined the CCIB to be used for the network, is responsible. It is responsible for maintaining the CATS network computing information, and it provides a basic data for the CSMA. And we also defined the CNIB to responsible for maintaining the CATS network information, and they used it for the CNMA. And we defined two new interfaces. For example, the CATSBI, it can be used between the CAS forwarders and the CAD control link. It can be used to report the computing metric information, and it also can be used to send the paths and the surface policy information to the control plate to the CAS forwarder. And for CSM, for CSMA API, it can be used between the Controllable and the Metis API, it can be used between the control play and their METPA and their CSMA, it can be used to report the service metric information to the control play or from control play to the CASA forwarders. So the second update is the CASA-D-D-D-Model structure. This model extends through the IN-PORs and the workments the ITF routing Young model, divided in RFC-E-YANMOD, 8349, it does not depend some specific solution or some protocol. So it is adheres to the CASF framework, and so it can be viewed as a critical, diagnostic and control mechanism. So the CASI-Y-R model can include the basic core mechanism. CASA objects, traffic classifical objects, and the surface metric objects, and also include the notification. So we also removed the forwarding play, YAM. It is applicable to the CAS API and the CSMA API. So we, the co-authors think it may be ready for a working group to consider the adoption. adoption. Thanks. Yes, so thank you for that prompt about adoption. As the working group has now pushed two drafts out to Jim and has another roughly approaching last call, the chairs are going to sit down and try and make a plan for what's next next and then run that past the working group. group and certainly these last three drafts that we've had are kind of high candidates for us, but we need to just sit and think about it carefully and then we will come to the working group and work out what we should be on next. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Next. Hello, everyone. I'm Mina. Today, on behalf of my call authors, I will present our updated draft computing metric as a service. It provides a service-oriented approach for CAAS traffic steering. So let's start with a fundamental question. What do clients and CPS need? Do we really need disseminate specific computing metrics? Let's look at different role. First, clients. They want to consume surveys. They want to know what surveys are available, so they don't need any specific computing metrics. metrics from CPS perspective, its work is steering traffic. It needs to know which service are valuable at which nodes. So it doesn't need concrete computing metrics either. Actually, we need specific computing metrics locally only when we allocate computing metrics locally only when we allocate and deployed service. Once the service is up and running, no matter role metrics or aggregated metrics, it's completely unnecessary. So we propose that the network should only disseminate lightweight service level information. To achieve this, we introduce the public service platform. Hosting Logical Registry called Public Service Table is an example of the table. It acts as a standardized recipe config for our available service. For clients, this table defines what service exists and the required input input the expected computing time. computing time, it helps them understand the service and formulator requests. For service sites, this table defines the minimum computing requirements and storage requirements. The service site just query this table to fetch the running code and the software dependency and then located results to deploy the service. The complexity of the hardware is completely hidden behind this table. Once the service is deployed, there will be a critical transformation. Instead of disseminating role metrics, the service site model their results into service unit. As shown in table 2, the most of the service site model their results into service unit, the service unit. The most important metric is gas or globally available slots. For example, three here means that the set has three AL1 instance at Port 67, and it also provides the cost and the local computing time. The set has full control over its capacity, and the table is the only thing needed to, need to advertise to the network. This diagram shows over our information flow. The CSMA of each site collect the service level information and then advertised to advertised. The CPS collect them and appendants the network metric provided by the CNMA and then form a whole service table for the control plane. control plane. Then I will introduce you a concrete case. First, service modeling. Service Situ and S3 deploy services and model the model the results into simple tables just like this. Set 2 says it has 3 1 instance at port 67 and 4 at port 68. 3 says it has 6.A.1 instance at port 68. at 4.69 and 3LM1 instance at 470. Then service distribution. The CSMA then advertised the simple tables. The CPS collect them and combined with the network delay from CNMA. The result is a full service table just like this. It provides gas cost computing time, network delay, and and contact drives. Additionally, the network is completely free of any raw hardware metrics. Finally, service consumption, when client requests A1 service, and needs the lowest delay, the CPS, then check this table and calculate the total delay, select the optimal one, select the optimal one. In this case, it's this. Once the traffic is still, maintaining the result state is very easy. Look at the located step. The CPS then decrement the gas from 3 to 2, and when the service complete, the release step will increment the gas back to 3. It's a highly scalable plus 1 and minus 1 operation. Let's watch a demo video. Okay, click on to that. We can play this video now, or we may update it now, or we may update it so we can check our demo. So why we choose CMAS, first, service level abstraction, it transforms real data into actual data into actionable service units at the source, decoubling hardware complexity from network routine. Second, strict compatibility. Fully comfortable with existing CSMA, CPS and CNMA components. Third, privacy preservation. Ro computing metrics remain local, protects the proprietary infra data of service provider. provider. For our next step, we will refine service unit template and accident gas metric. We also seek more use case and the collaborators. Thank you very much. So if you have any question, I'm ready to answer it. Guam, please. Thank you for your excellent presentation, and I'm Guan Ming from Harvard Technologies. And I have a question, which is that the draft clearly separates computing metric advertisement from network topology. However, optimal part selection requires a consistent wheel. of both compute and network states. How do you handle the synchronization between the CMS updates and routing protocol convergence? Thank you for your question. The update from, the update frequency from the CSA, SMA, we also, we also, the framework is an concern about the usage of the slots. So if the service side has its metric update, it just gave us some gas change and we will update our slots. We don't care about the detail of how we are metrics. Okay. thank you It's my student. I think I'm the teacher. So I think the thing you care about is the table, how to co-work with the network. Please be close to the mic. Yeah, network convergence. Actually, the SDN controller has the TEDB database for his network topology and the link state. Combining the, in this work, we have disseminated the service unit table. Service information is a very lightweight table. After the table get to the CPS, the CPS will combine in the table to form the whole service table. The service table is also very lightweighted. with it and the CPS complying the service table with the TEDB, who will get the decision, how to steer on traffic. So it does not interfere the network convergence. It's just the table to very light table to get to the CPS. The service information, the service information, is very clear in the table and it's consuming a service just need to need to change the value of the gas. So I think it is very, and we have realized a system using the framework, during the framework. So I think it is very important for it is very important for our group to first run the system to just to make the framework run. It's a very important thing, I think. Well, next, Chen. Thank you for your presentation. And I wonder that what's the difference between the L1, L2 metric, and the surface unit, because in my view, they were aggregate the raw metrics to several specific metrics. Thank you. Thank you. L1, L2 metrics, we can say it is normalized physical metrics. But our metrics is not concerned about the physical way. The service site used this metrics to calculate the service units. Then it's just the same service units that our same as metrics to the network, then the network don't need to know the physical details. Then maybe it would be better to add some augment to the L1A2. Please move the discussion online because it is too specific. And from the working group perspective, you may consider that to find out what should be done in the CATS working group document from your drug and the second one is that to find out what you want to do in this working group first for the working group document cosmetic and another one is that what you want because in next steps we didn't see that what you want from the group right okay thank you thank you for this interesting work and We need to move to next one. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Hui Juenyao from Channel Mobile. Now I'm happy to share our analysis about the protocols applicability forecast. Firstly, let's talk about why we submit these drafts. There are three things. One is two analysis, existing ITF protocols forecast ability. to evaluate extensibility for 3K areas, including metrics collection and distribution and past selection and traffic steering, as well as social mapping and management. More importantly, this draft is no new protocol proposal. It is focused on the analysis of the existing case, has existing ITF protocols to the CAS system. Now let's have all over the CASA framework quickly, because it is our, it is the basis of our this draft. Now, as showing in this figure, there are four key function, function. components, including S SMA, NMA, SPS, CTCC. From all architecture, we can see, Casca can work in three planes, interconnected three planes, including control plane, data plane and management plan. The working flow, the working The working flow is very straight forward. It's then we can collect metrics, including network, and computing metrics, and then we can select a path for the service flow, and then we need traffic steering to the corresponding service site. Now let's go to the curve to the corresponding service site. of this structure. We can, we analysis from CASA applicability from the three planes, including control plan, management plan, data plan. Then we step into one, step by step, go through, we go through, focus on which protocols are extended. Let's go to the, let's go to the cast control plan, Plain applicability. It is a core part of the case applicability. It covers matrix distribution and the past selection and traffic steering. As showing in this figure, we can see for matrix distribution, for IGRIS node, as showing in IgRAS 1 or IGR2, can advertise matrix to the metrics to the CPS with BDP extension or young model extension. If the IGRAS as the CPS, as showing in IGRS 1, IGRS 2, can order what has metrics from the CPS data from IGP, BGP extensions. For passive selection, as well as the CPS, calculate the optimal mass and distribute to the ingress through the PCEP extension. For traffic steering, it's the controller since the routine policies to egress, where BGP flows back to traffic steering to the corresponding side node. For the, let's move to the management control ability, it's more to the management control ability. It may include configuration and provisioning and monitoring on the telemetry. For configuration and the provisioning, we will extend the young model to configure CAS policies, CISD mapping, and the CSMMA parameters. For monitoring and the telemetry, we can set up a young model. young model approach and telemetry to management stream real-time cash flow, such as the status, part performance, and community resource status to management system. For OAM enhancement, we can extend the PN trace operations to touch and specific CSAD for service level. for the lecture and pass verification. Let's go to the CAS data plan applicable. For data plan, it is focusing forwarding and data forwarding and data forwarding and it can fully replace on existing data plan. That is there is no new data plan. As a show in the figure, they will use case for ASRWI fixed data plan. It's, to end the process is very simple. For ingress, for ingress code, it can classify packets. Then in capriculate with a corresponding header to point to the select egress. And For INRAS note, it can decalculate and deliver data to the local interface. To make it clear, we make a summary table for protocol extension analysis. For control plan, it is very important, very critical for our draft. It can extend the BGPLSP, PECP or PEP flow spec. For BDP RIS, we can need extended new metrics for computer component metrics. For PECP, we can add new objectives to carry computer performance. Now for BGPFS, we can add a new metric, we can add a new matcher criteria. criteria for CSID. For management plan, it is a core model is about young. We can enhance models, forecast, configure, telemetry, and OAM. For data plan, it is fully dependent on the IPV6 and SRIV6, exacting exacting protocols, it is just only defined SID 70s for CSID. The greatest thing for this draft is to analysis existing protocol to work in CASI and while still enabling enabling efficient community and networking convergence. Maybe we hope it will be able to clear efficient community and networking convergence. Maybe we hope it can clear workable to deploy CAS. Thank you. This all. This draft is just a first version. We would like to look forward any questions or comments. Thank you. Thank you. Xen, please. Hi, Xin Xin from China Yulika. Yes. Okay. And we think this work is very important and it's meaningful. And my first question is, my first question is, will this drafter and giving specific protocol, a recommendation for the deployment, such as may you can, you can, you can? You can, you, you will recommend the BGBLs for the distribute deployment, or you will recommend there are some other protocols to the specific deployment. You will do this. About this question, do this draft adjust analysis of BGPLS protocol protocol. of course it can include other protocol extensions to work and this. Okay. Okay. Well, no, I think it was individual draft, right? And it do the analysis work. And I think for this draft, just any related protocols, protocols could be added in this draft because it will do the analysis work, not the solution or recommend any protocols to realize the CAT system. So you mentioned BGPS that could be added in the drafts? Yes. Okay. Yes, thank you. Maybe because we proposed some protocol drafted to do the CATs metric collection or the distribution. We want to discuss this work. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Jeffrey. Hi, Jeff Faz. One of the things that would be useful to discuss in the document is the rate of change of the state, know, for the control plane. As the example, if you want to use beach PLS, beach PLS. typically does not handle fast-turning data. Yeah, so I think the ask there is that you add to this document some consideration of the amount of data and the rate of change of data so that that helps us understand which protocols are best suited each job. Okay. Thank you. Please just consider chair's suggestion and update the draft. And it is a good draft maybe before any solution, any CAS solution draft. So thank you. So next, BGP applicability. Good afternoon. This is Linda Dunbar from Future Way. So today I'm just going to give you a little update of what we have done in BGP in IDR Group about the metadata pass attribute and see how they can be applied to the matrix specified by cats. So here's the summary of this edge metadata. metadata pass attribute specified by IDR is optional non-transitive BGP pass attribute. You can carry the metadata and it is very important that not every prefix carry this patch attribute. We want to make this only for a small subset because it carries lots of data through the network. And it's really based on the local configuration. And here we show on the actual BGP message is the past attribute. Okay. It is very important in the IDR group. We talk about this is really for the limited domain metadata distribution. All the BGP speakers have to announce it during the open message to show they are capable. of supporting it. And there's a flag when you send the open, PGP open message. You can either allow this metadata to be available for all the AFIS-Safi or limited. If it is limited, you basically list down all those AFIS. And it is very, very important from ID-S perspective to to constrain the distribution of those metadata because it does contain sensitive information. You may not want to, operators may not want to, propagate those information to our intended audience. So in the BGP mechanism, there are three methods to achieve this method. One is non-advertisement community. When is AIS scope, adding AS scope sub tlV. One is the route filter and the policies. Okay, so here we want to emphasize this limited domain. The limited domain is really defined by deployment. It could be one region or one specific area for the deployment. And in this domain, the metrics can be propagated, but it can cannot cross the border. Okay, so non-transitive is actually added by the source. So when the Edge Data Center generate those matrix and attach them to the services, they add this non-transitive pass attribute so that the node receiving it would not to propagate across the border. In addition, the raw reflector can also add this non-advertise, well-known community so that receiving node were not propagated across to the unintended audience, the unintended neighbor. And to, on top of that, to prevent any any possibility of going cross-border, the message itself, the update itself can also include the intended ASS, so that it will definitely not cross to the ASS, not listed here. So those are the three methods which have been indicated in the IDR document. So in terms of applicability to apply those metadata and the methods to the metrics specified by CATS, in the PTP metadata pass attribute, they're currently those sub-TOVs has been specified. One is, the first one is the site preference index. This is mapping into CAD's L2 policy matrix. And second one is the physical availability index. This is exactly mapped to a shared resource, which is being described in one of the CATS document. So the physical availability index is really to share is really to show that you may have a fiber cut to a particular part, a particular shelf. And all the instances, it doesn't matter is IPV4, IPV6, or VPN, all the instances are impacted. Instead of having so many individual withdrawal message to the remote end saying all those different prefixes need to withdraw this method allowed just one single message to be sent to the ingress nodes so they can take it off, just consider all the routes associated with this particular index are treated as withdrawal. So that's the purpose of this site, physical availability index, subtylVs 4. Then next, a service delay prediction, which can be mapped directly to the service processing delay. And then there's a service-oriented capability, which is mapped into the CAD's computing resource capability. And there's also raw measurement, which is mapped into the traffic load utilization, which is like CAD's L0 or or L1 type of matrix. Okay, so in the IDEA document, we have extended description how those metadata are used in path selection. So the path selection is really deployment-specific attribute selection. It influenced the BTP decision process. process. The whole point of passing those attributes to the ingress node is for the purpose of ingress node to be able to select the pass not only based on the network condition, but also based on the service environment where the destination is. And also there's a handling of degraded matrix, right? It's a policy. And there's a description on that, and also there's a way to fall back. When now the metadata routes can be selected, how do we fall back? Okay, so in the path selection, in the IDEA document, we described three different scenarios. This is really, each of the scenario is by configuration. So scenario number one, metadata plays a higher priority than the traditional BGP. So that means when they choose the past, they use metadata as the first choice. If it's equal, then go through the other BGP criteria. And second one is metadata value is same level as a traditional BGP matrix. And in the document, it describes how the, the, the, the, selection process basically goes through traditional BGP decision steps, right, from local preference through the path, lands to the origin, and then go to the metadata. Scenario 3 is traditional BGP matrix has higher priority. So basically, metadata is used as a tiebreaker if two paths have equal level. So that's in the IDR document. Of course, there are gaps from the metadata pass attribute defined by IDR to be applied directly to CATS. So there's one thing about this service instance differentiation. In the IDR document, we don't have the service instance indicated. indicated so in order for the cat matrix to work probably and probably another instance ID need to be included second is when you have large amount of raw data in CATs the terminology is L0 type matrix you need some kind of hierarchical types types to make it scale to be processed by properly. So that has to be introduced. Katz also defined this matrix lifetime. In IDR document, we don't have this TTL or time to valid until this kind of attributes. So in order to support CAD, this has to be introduced. And also for the shared resource, there's a scope identifier. Identifier. So this allowed the site physical available index to be categorized by a scope identifying. There's also more need to support more dynamic matrix classes. In the CAS, they define matrix classes which can change frequently with IDR, with BGP update, probably is not really suitable for that. So that's the end. If anybody have questions. Okay, thank you, Guan Ming, please. Thank you. Thank you for your presentation. And I have a question. I'm Guanming from Harvard Technologies. Since 5G radio connections and U.E.Mobil state can change very rapidly. Whereas the cast control loop involving matrix collection, part of computation typically operates on a slower time scale. What mechanisms does you suggest to handle this timing mismatch? Oh, I don't have any suggestion at this point. Here, I'm only present what IDI has done and what BGB can do for those dynamic matrix. maybe there will be some other consideration. And there is a presentation earlier before me talking about all those control points. Maybe something has to be evaluated and then see if that applicable for this. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. in the chat books from Jeffrey, so the authors of the solution dropped with BGP related or just the authors of the applicability dropped. Please see some discussion in the chat box. We may find out the rate change of the competing resource. So we can discuss whether BGP is a suitable protocol to realize can realize CAS system. Okay, thank you. Next. Okay, good afternoon, everyone. I'm presenting our work on the CATS for O-TN. OTN. Today, multi-side computer services have become common, but the traditional traffic dispatching, typically based on the nearest site selection, often falls short. More importantly, for the highly demanding workloads such as the model training and inference, the pure packet-based steering may not meet the stringent requirements for latency, jitter, and and determinism. Our work extends the cathars thinking into optical transport domains, bringing the deterministic transport capabilities into discussion to address these challenges. We have identified some use cases which require both the computer awareness and network awareness simultaneously. These include the model change, and inference jobs, which impose the strict synchronization requirements on the distributed GPU clusters. And the high-performance computing workloads and telehealth services are examples where the high bandwidth is very important. All these use cases share a common requirement. They need to determine and high bandwidth transport with guaranteed performance. We take the agreed CAD framework and functional components and then extend them for OTN. The key idea is to use OTN to complement packet-based cuts by combining compute metrics with optical layer matrix. It enables us to establish end to end-to-end hard isolation for demanding service flows. And the traffic can be mapped into optical containers, such as ODOK and FGOTM. The path selector can consider several factors, such as deterministic past latency, violence, continuity constraints, optical link performance, and computer resource state. the framework and the workflow The key building blocks have been defined in the existing CAS framework. And the workflow works as follows. First, our service is identified by its CSID, and then metrics from both compute side and the network side are distributed to decision points. And the CPS will choose the best instance and the optimal path. And the traffic will be classified in the ingress and then mapped into optical transport containers. Finally, the traffic is delivered to the selected service instance. We ask the CAS working group for some deeper thinking. For the matrix, on the computer side, For the computer side, we need to consider the service status, GPU, or computer load, memory availability. And for the optical side, we need to look at the latency, valence, time slot availability, and the optical link quality. And of course, there are some operational questions relevant to our work. request working group members to review and to review and comment. And we will integrate all the feedback. Thank you. Welcome your questions and comments. So I'm going to fill the gap. I think it's interesting. We need to be careful how we phrase this. It's not the applicability of CATS to OTN. It's the applicability of OTN to CATS. So it's how we might build a CAT system sitting on top of an OTN system. And I think that's an interesting thing that probably most people in the hadn't been thinking about because they were coming at this from a sort of packet perspective. So we need to get some more eyes on this, get the people in CCAMP in particular, but probably also T, to be thinking about this. So it's a good start. Thank you. Yes, I agree. Okay. Thank you. No one in the queue. So we move to next. We should have. 5.2. Oh, we don't have it. Okay. I... Excuse. When you joined, if you... Yes, there is this, but we have this, but we couldn't find here, right? I can hear my screen. Sorry about this, everybody. We had a data tracker SNF with this set of slides. You need to reload. In case you want to know what the bug is, if the file name is more than 128 characters, it accepts the upload but doesn't actually upload the slides. Hello everyone, my name is Zheng-Han from BOPPT. Today I will present the updates to UNCO. Thanks to the great feedback from Danerley, Steven, and Adrian. We clarified our scope and resource models. Next. At the last meeting, Danarily asked why we focus on the optical networks. The answer is distributed AI workloads require hard isolation, zero jetter, and the deterministic lengthens. Only optical layers like OTN can guarantee this. That's why we believe this work belongs in the sea camps. So we propose UNACO, it enables bi-directional awareness, resource abstraction, and joint orchestration between optical transport networks. and AI computing infrastructure. We identified three main use cases where remote AI access is typical user-to-compute scenario. Distributed AI training and distributed AI inference are messy computer-to-computer scenario. Currently, the computer schedulers and optical controllers are isolated. For example, a computer power scheduler assigns a distributed job to two data centers with free GPUs, but it's completely blind to congested optical link between them. So this leads to this leads to the optical link. to massive computer efficiency loss. To solve this question, to solve these questions, to solve these questions, we need joint orchestration. This brings us to three requirements. First, integrated control and management architecture. Second, unified abstraction and evaluation framework. Following the feedback, following the feedback from Stephen, we have integrated the storage along with computer and optical states. Third, scheduling algorithm for joint orchestration. These three requirements leads to a question raised by Adrian. How is the different from cats? The table shows clear boundary. Katz is about steering traffic over existing paths. It's triggered when packets arrive at the ingress. Unako is a lifecycle orchestrator. It's before the first bit is absent. Unako evaluates service intent. Locks required a service intent. required the AI computing resource and provirons a new optical circuits. And in case for OTN, optical channels are also pre-provisioned. For massive AI workloads, only steering traffic or existing shared pipes is not enough. is not enough. We need to control the optical layer to provision a new physical or logical links on demand. Before the architecture, look at the service model. The customers specify their AI service intent, like training a large model. Then the service provider must the translation is intense and orchestrate across two distinct domains. The network provider and the computer power provider. In the real world, they are usually different entities or at least different departments. So we must standardize the control interface to bridge them. Unicu architecture builds on the top, built perfectly on the top of ACTN. The transport network controller is essentially as an ACTNPNPNC and the UTI interface is based on the ACTN MPI. But here is a critical difference. But here is a critical difference. The unified compute optical orchestrator act as an enhanced ACTN MDSC. We introduce a new domain. The compute power scheduler connected with the new UCI interface. So instead of traffic, routing traffic, the UCOOO can take the customers intense and orchestrate across two domains include both computer nodes and the ACTN optic networks at the same time. we will refine the architecture, clarify the relationship with ACTN, and details in use cases. We also plan to update the draft name to better match the Monaco's scope. We also will design young data model for the interface. Welcome more reviews and hope to seek WG adoption. Thank you very much. Thank you. No one in the queue. I have one question. About this slide, you list a relationship with cats. But as it shows, I didn't see the similarly before them. Or if you want to promote this, you may to promote this. you're made to make clear relationship between it. Okay. No more questions. Do you have anything? So this is just to wake up. Howmian. I'm interested, you're almost as old as I am, whether this reminds you of layer one VPN. Yeah, go ahead. Yes, this is a kind of layer one VPN connection serving for, I believe, somehow like CAT service. Yeah, okay, thank you. So my advice to you is, is go and see if you can find the RFCs about layer 1 VPN. I'll drop a note to the mailing list. But layer 1 VPN was about providing optical trails between edge points and discovering the edge points. So it may be helpful. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, next. Okay, good afternoon, everybody. My name is Haini Wong from Pongchernan Laboratory. Today I'm going to introduce two IETF drafts that we wrote recently. One is about IDN and the second one is about ODSI. Due to time limits, I will just give a short introduction of these two drafts. And we welcome. the feedback from the CATS working group. Unlike previous drafts in this working group, these two drafts are more about the LM or model inference aspects. Our first draft is called IDN. It is an intelligence delivery network. Intelligent Delivery Network is a framework. for deploying the different models across the heterogeneous cloud and edge nodes. And this idea is inspired by the content delivery network. And we, in this idea, we deploy the different models across the different layers of of the computing nodes, including the edge device, the networking device, and the cloud computing resources. And the components of this framework is many composed of six components. The first one is about identification. And it solves the problem that how the capability of a model is defined. For example, what tasks are supported, what is the accuracy, what is the performance of the model. performance of the model. And the second component is about access. It solves the problem that how a new device can join these computing resources pool to provide their own computing power. And the third one is about deployment. It solves a problem about how the model can be deployed across these heterogeneous computing nodes. And the fourth component is about routing. Routing is the problem that given user requests, how the request can be routed to the best devices, just like in the CDNs. And the next is about cache. It used different mechanisms to improve the performance of the system and to improve the user experience experience, including like caches of the model intermediates, and can we cache. And the last one is about security. We are also so to improve the privacy and the data security of the system. And we would like to hear the feedback from the community about the framework design and also about the details. And the second framework is about audio. It is open, decentralized, and scalable framework for large language model inference. Actually, the core idea is inspired by the blockchain. It's like that each computing node can join these computing resources and to provide their power for perform parts of the model inference. And in this framework, we designed many three components. The first one, is about a transport protocol that defines how or what are the data being transferred between different nodes of this distributed or decentralized computing nodes. And the second one is about the coordination. It solves the problem about how the request can be performed by using the centralized the computing power of different nodes. And the third one is about the economics design, because each computing node is not characteristic. So we designed a mechanism that just like in the blockchain to encourage each computing node to provide their computing power for the resources. So that's all about the... this simple introduction of the two drafts, we would like to hear any feedback from the community. Thanks. And I'm trying out from the TE Corporation. And I'm very interesting in the IDN solutions, because I'm familiar with the CDN. As you said, this is very similar to CDN mechanisms. But other why I want to know is the CDN has a co-function, it's load balance would be implementing the application layer, which we call the GSLB, a GB. Yes, maybe that. And also we can use the cats for another type of load balance but implementing the later. layer we're using CAS to select the right node, service node. And for the IDN, and we still have this problem, if we want to do the load of balance to traffic the user request to the right, uh, uh, uh, uh, light model in the age site, which kind of the mechanism for load of balance will be good or will be better for the application layers implementations or we use CAS here because CASC, it needs to consider the, computer resource and the network resource, but application layers only concerning the content or the models for the notes. So which kind of the mechanism will be better. Thank you. Uh, sorry, so your question is about the load balancing part of this framework? Yes, the ability can be the different scenarios used in CDN or CATs. CDN or CATS. Because the CASS, I understand the CASS use the traffic steering by consider the computing source and the network source. That will be implemented in the network side. But CDN consider the content, what's the content we'll locate into distributing the notes. But here you say that you need to deploy the large model, which is maybe computer sensitive in the edge nodes. So you may think the CATS will be good for the IDN, but is there any other possibility to just use the application layers load balancing in the IDN? Or you're thinking the CATS is the more appropriate the solutions for implement a load balancing in the IDEA. Okay, thanks for your question. So actually, the load balancing in this part, But our idea of design is to follow a similar pattern in the CDM. But as we know that in CDN, the content can be distributed to each computing nodes, preening, and since the contents can be replicated and very easily to access and store in the computer node. But in this, our framework of IDM, the model, especially for the large language models, they can't be decomposing, they can't be easily decomposing to the small objects or the small parts that can be deployed on each device. So in this framework, our one of the most important design is actually the first component about how to decompose the large language model into different parts, for example, by decomposing it into different phases, different layers. Okay, sorry, we don't have so much time. So please, just to respond this question in the minute list. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. We need to move to the last one. Okay, thank you. We can discuss about that later. Okay. Hello, everyone. So this is my first attending an ITF meeting. So I don't, I'm not very first attending an ITF meeting. So I don't, I'm not very first attending. I'm not very first. familiar with the process, so my slide is relatively simple. Okay, next I will share some immature ideas about the potential capabilities that future network knows might need to have for AI traffic. For the first slide, okay, so why is today's network not good enough for AI traffic? First, the mechanism are two cores. course QOS can separate video from web traffic, but in an AI drop is treated a critical gradient synchronize the same as less urgent parameter fetch. So the network is blind to this semantics. Second, the network doesn't understand the meaning of traffic. It can't tell a packet is part of an activity. An activation, a gradient, or a kiwi-catch. These have very different meaning, timing, and importance. But the network handles them all the same. Third, look at, for example, as an ECN, it's just a congestion signal. It says slow down, but it can't make a scheduling decision. It doesn't know which flow to prioritize, which one can be buffered or just one can be buffered, or just one. could tolerate lower position instead of just slowing down. And in a cross-domain environment, this problem are much more worse. The RTT is longer and the bandwidth is expensive, sending the wrong traffic at the wrong time. Here is, a round time here is very costly. The old one-size-fits-all approach breaks down completely for AI. for AI. And for next slide. What we propose, our proposal is a simple, a semantic contract between the app and the network. Here's the deal. The application provides a little bit of key information about the traffic, just like the basis, like what a type of data is, and how urgent it is, which compute resources. resource it prefers and it can tolerate like a bit of delay or lower position. The network then use this info as input for its policies. It doesn't treat every packet equally anymore. It can now tell flows apart and apply the right action. High priority for urgent gradients, buffering for large parameters or small tearing towards a specific type of processor like a GPU or FPGA. So this creates a clear map from semantic information like traffic class, urgency, to network policies like priority queuing, shaping, or steering. The network finally understand the context. Okay, what an IntelliNode is and how it uses. The semantics. Okay, the contract provides the meaning, but how does the network act on it? This is where IntelliNode comes in. Think of Intel node as a network's ring for real-time scheduling. It's building inside the network so it can see live conditions, Q-Debbs, link usage, what the computer node are doing, and it gets the semantic info from the contract. It combines these two things, what, like thematic and how is the network right on, right now, state. Then it makes a micro second level decisions. Based on this, it can perform real-time actions right inside the data path. It can choose the best path, split a lot of data path. split a large tensor, buffer lower priority data, or stair traffic to a specific server. So in short, the symmetric contract tells the network what the traffic means, and the IntelliNode is a framework that lets the network decide and do the right things with that knowledge. It can make the network active and service aware. And what we plan to do next, our plan focused on turning this idea to practice. First, we need to refine the semantic model. We will work with frame developers to nail down the smallest, most useful set of information that might be shared. Second, we must define how to carry this info in package. We are looking at the extensions, headers, or new T. especially for protocols like Rocky V2. So switches can read it at a line rate. Third, we have to clarify the decision boundaries. What should endpoints handle versus what's better decisions in the network? We need clear roles. And finally, we will build prototypes and test them. We need real data to provide the data to provide that this approach actually improves the performance, resource use, and efficiency for AI workloads. Our goal is clear to move from just talking about traffic thematic to actually enabling practical e-network handling for AI service. Okay, that's all my share. Thank you. Okay, thank you. No one in the queue. So my suggestion is to find out the suitable place to move this draft or just find out what's a relationship between your draft and to catch working group. Okay. Thank you. Good. So that brings us pretty much to the end. Thank you for everybody for sticking exactly to your times. As we said earlier, our next kind of step is to work out what documents the working group should be picking up and moving forward, what topics. So if you have opinions on that, well, technically there's a minute and a half. You could say them now. Probably better to find the chairs and let them know your opinions and maybe start pushing ideas on the mailing list. Don't all jump in with me, me, me, me, because we do have a charter and we have to stick inside that charter, and we do need to take our work step by step carefully. Any last comments? Well done for using the tool and coming to the queue. Come to the queue. I'm sorry, I can't log in right now for some reason. Curity Compella. Was the last presentation in charter? I don't think it was in charter for adopting us work or anything like that. No, was the topic in charter. topic in charter. In terms of hearing the discussion to find out what people are doing and thinking about round cats, that's why it was on the agenda in the, if there's time to talk about it section. But it doesn't feel to me like this is something that's in the current charter. Okay. Thank you. All right, then that's us done. We will see you. We will see you in the on email and in Vienna. Okay, thank you everyone. We're going to close our meeting. Thank you. Thank you.