Okay. So welcome everyone. This is the lake meeting at ITF 125. Hello to all the remote presenters from Shenzhen. My name is Malisha and my co-chair is Renzo. Since we are the Monday of the ITF week, we should take a moment to take care of the Notewell. Notewell covers the ITF contributions, and all the contributions that you make with respect to this meeting are considered contributions to the ITF standardization process. Please be respectful to each other and behave in a professional manner. If you are aware of any patents, you are required to disclose them following the Notewell. This meeting is required. This meeting is recorded, so we are and we are taking notes. I believe we already have at least two note takers, Marco and Joanna, and I would like to thank them at this occasion for their availability. So on-site attendance, please sign in using the Miteko on-site tool by scanning the QR code so that your presence is logged. is logged. Remote participants, please make sure your audio and video are off unless you're chairing or presenting during the session. So here are a couple of resources for today's meeting. We have a packed agenda. So we, I will be going through this in a moment. We, I took a moment to a moment to a moment to recap a little bit because because we have a couple of newcomers in the meeting. So to recap what the working group is about. So at a lake working group has standardized at the ad hoc protocol, RFC 9528, a lightweight authenticated key exchange protocol. It was standardized, I believe, two years ago as an RFC. In RFC 9528 and RFC 99, the ad hoc protocol targets constrained IOTU. use cases such as BLE, 6ish I3802.15.4, Laura1 and other applicable use cases. It was developed in synchronization with the formal methods community by launching different formal analysis calls in parallel with the standardization process in the IETF. We will see that how that process works in action during this meeting as we will be hearing multiple presentation on formal analysis related to the ongoing drafts of the lake working group. At-hoc is deployed. I provide here a pointer to a blog post that we wrote on ad hoc and some deployments that we are aware of. More information, implementation, formal analysis pointers, etc. are available at lakewg.org. It's a confluence page that we as chairs try to maintain to the extent possible. Of course, if you, If you see anything outdated on that page, please let us chairs know and we can update the page or you can update it directly by clicking by anonymously editing the page. Current work in the lake working group considers reeking and pre-shared key-based authentication, remote attestation, third-party authorization, implementation consideration documents, etc. And we will be seeing more of these during the meeting today. So that would be it for the recap right now on the status. So all the six of the active adopted documents got recent updates for this IETF. So I thank the editors and the draft authors for their reactivity. Today, five of them will be presented. And so the documents will be presented as well as formal analysis presentations for two of them because we recently launched the formal analysis for pre-reactivity. pre-shared key-based authentication draft in during the last ITF meeting after the last ITF meeting in Canada, sometime in November 2025. Apart from the adopted documents, we have four individual drafts that will be discussed at this meeting. And I would like to take this occasion to thank Paul for serving as our AD and for doing the bold. the bulk of the work on the rechartering of the lake. As a reminder, the new lake recharter allows us to standardize new ad hoc methods that includes chem authenticated, chem authenticated ad hoc methods, as well as to perform maintenance on the protocol to include to standardize new cypher streets, which includes the work on reducing transport overhead. One document that is not discussed in today's meeting is the Greece document that is led by Christian. He kindly provided the Hackathon report in the form of a GitHub issue, which you can consult at this page. And in consultation with Christian, we will be launching a working group last call after this meeting on the Greece document. We expect the multiple working group last calls to be launched at this meeting. at this meeting, so for note takers, it would be appropriate to maybe make a section in the notes on the working group last calls. And we would need to agree on the order in which we will launch working group last calls. This is the best practice of the working group so far, such that we do not overlap the documents, and we have enough time for reviewers to review individual documents. individual documents during the working group last call. So I'm already a little bit over time and we have a packed agenda. So this is what the agenda looks like. Do we have any agenda bashing on this agenda here? So I suppose we will be going on with this agenda. Okay, thank you. So this will be for any other business. With that, I propose we get going with the first slot, which is the formal analysis of Draft Lake, ad hoc TSK 06 by Decra. Decra, can you hear us? Yes, I do. Okay. Let me just share the slides. control. Can I do this here? No? I choose give to DECA, I think. Okay, perfect. I couldn't find her in the participants. That's perfect. So Dekra, you have 20 minutes. Please go ahead. Okay. Thank you, Malisha. So I am Dekra Mahmoud. I am a postdoc researcher from a lab called Limos in France. And I basically work fully on the formal analysis. on the formal analysis of security protocols. Okay, so as Malicia mentioned, so the ad hoc PSK is currently under standardization and the lake working group called for formal analysis, and here we are. Okay, so before going through the formal analysis, let me just give you a quick reminder regarding the ad hoc PSK protocol. So it involves an initiator and a EU responder. They both share. a symmetric secret key beforehand. And in the first message, the initiator is going to create his own ephemeral definal key, which is here, G to the power of x. And the responder is going to process the message and send and create his first, is also ephemeral definal key, G to the power of y. In the third message, the initiator is going to use his PSK. in the message. So upon receiving this message, the responder is going to authenticate I. And the initiator waits to the last message from the responder in order to authenticate him. And after actually this exchange, so a session key called PRK is going to be created. Right? So here you only need to only need to recall that it's based on appreciate key and both of them needs an identifier for the appreciate key called ID-Cred PSK. I'll go again to this ID-Cret PSK maybe later. Okay, great. Now regarding the form analysis in the symbolic model. So in this particular approach, we consider that cryptographic permit of that perfect, meaning that there is no cryptanalysis attacks, There is no side-channel attacks, meaning that we need only the secret key in order to decrypt. I mean, the only way to decrypt is with secret key rights. So the protocols also needs to be encoded in a formal language, right? It depends on the tool or it depends on what formal language that we choose. The attacker is considered the full network, and generally speaking, we consider the worst-case. It's the worst case. I mean, it's an active attacker who can intercept, play replay messages, delete or block messages, and also inject messages of his own. We can also add some particular compromises capabilities for the attacker. In this work, we added the compromise of the PSK, we added the compromise of the defielman secret keys, X and Y. We added also the possibility for the attacker to compromise the searcher. and we also added a capability at infinity of the attacker, which is a discrete logarithm oracle. So why here at infinity? Because we considered, in our formal analysis, unbounded number of sessions and unbounded number of participants, that mean in fine number of sessions. So the Oracle only need to be deployed, I mean, at the very end or after the protocol executions. These security protocols also should be expressed formally, either as reachability or derivability properties, or trace properties, or equivalence properties. So in order to have a model, and when we talk about a model in the symbolic, in formal analysis, so we talk about a model of the protocol, the model of the primitives, the model of the attacker, and a mother of the security property. And the model, actually, yeah. So we have some in the queue. Would you like to take questions? now or at the end of your presentation? Maybe at the end because I'm going back to all of them. Okay. So, I mean, the model actually has the freedom over all those properties. So for those who consider that designing security protocol is actually hard, I mean, also verifying security protocols is actually hard, because if there is some details missing in one of those features, then we may have different results. results. Okay, so I think maybe all of you have heard of the mainstream protocol verifiers, tamering and proverve. Also, the choice of the tool is important because, I mean, they may give different results. So in 2022, we have this paper called Sapec Plus protocol verifier of the word unit where they introduce a new framework from which we can, I mean, from From one model of Sapid Plus, we can generate two models, one for Tamarin and one for Proverf, and we have sense of the soundness over the protocol model, not over the primitives, not other security properties, but over the protocol model in order to be able to work on it with both tools. So here maybe my table is not fair for Proverf, it seems like Tamarin checks all the marks, but this is not true. Proverf, generally speaking, is more efficient and is very fast compared to Tamarin, but tamarin is more precise. Okay, so now let's see the claimed and formalized security properties for the ad hoc protocol. So there is this confidentiality of the session key, and we formalize it different ways. So we formalized secrecy of a session key from the initiator point of view and the responder point. of view, since they may not agree on the same session key, we formalize also on secrecy upon agreement and forward secrecy. Also mutual authentication and explicit key confirmation was claimed, so we formalized the authentication of the initiator to the responder upon receiving message 3 and the authentication of R and I, receiving of message for. So regarding the properties that we formalize as equivalence properties, so we can see that it's called identity protection. We formalize two flavors of identity protection, namely anonymity and and unlinkability. Anonymity of a participant just means that the attacker want to be able to extract or to know the identity of either, the initiator or the responder when the protocol has been executed. And unlinkability means that even though the attacker doesn't know the identity, can the attacker actually link sessions to the same identity? Okay, now let's see the table of the results using tamarine and proverb with trace properties. So here I put the minimal compromise scenarios that are needed to break the security properties and the table can be, I mean, we can read it at the following. For example, the PR keys secrecy upon agreement can be broken either, in the active case, either if the attacker has BSK or X, which is the FMRO key, or BSK and the other ephemeral key, or simply if the attacker compromises the PR key. We can see here that PSK is basically everywhere. That means that it acts act a defense mechanism to all the properties. But we can see that the forward secrecy is not achieved achieved if we consider discrete logarithm oracle. Okay, so the minimum compromise scenarios for the identity hiding properties. So we can see that the unlinkability of the initiator, in the passive case can be broken either if the attacker knows one of the femoral keys, but if the attacker has an access to a discrete logarithm oracle, then there is no unlinkability of the initiator, and also there is no unlinkability for the responder considering passive attacker. And in this particular case, Proverif actually outputs a counter example for the unlinkability of the responder, considering a passive attacker, which is actually very, let's say, obvious. If we have one responder executing the protocol with maybe multiple initiators, and on the other hand, this execution should be indistinguishable from having many responders. And if the initiator actually just broadcast messages, then at some point in the case of we have many initiators, many responders, so the protocol would fail at many points since the authentication of the responder only happened in the last message. However, if we have only one responder, we are always having message four, message four everywhere. So the protocol would never fail and the attacker would able to compare those scenarios. Okay, so before taking the questions, I'm going to say that are we done with the formal analysis? I would say no, because we can add many features to our models. So here I put what we can integrate immediately. For example, more precise model of the XOR, also add more algebraic properties of the Diffelman's pronunciation in Proverve. And more importantly, so for me, we need to replace the Diffie Helman with a standard KEM model to see whether if the Kemp model whether if the chem actually, I mean, behaves exactly like the Tifilman or not. Also, we need to, I mean, there is those security properties as called unknown kitchen attacks that we need maybe to model, such as bilateral and unilateral case. For the next steps, but not immediate, those are more complicated features. So I put here some ideas. some ideas, so for those who want to collaborate, or for those who want to make their models, so it should be, I mean, great to add those features. Thank you so much. Thank you, Dacra. So we can take questions now. So we have Osama in the queue. Osama, do you want to go ahead? Yeah, sure. Thanks very much. It was very interesting and great to see that the working group is going into more and more formal analysis. That's really nice to see. You see, if you go back to fourth slide, I just a clarification question. So replay, delete, inject that all is fine. So I just want to understand intercept that. So at the top you are saying the network as the worst case. So intercept would just be a passive listener. It wouldn't be active one, right? Okay. Yes, thanks. Okay. Okay. And in the next slide, I have, I work a lot with Proverif. I do have concern about this. I think it's a not a fair comparison, as you also kind of agreed. Yeah, that's what I said. Yeah, I mean, saying maybe it's not enough because your slides are there, so people can misinterpret it. The thing is that it can be useful in many cases where tamarin will get stuck and so on, and you need to move to some tool where you can still get some results with some approximations, maybe, but anyway. But anyway, so in the next, I think six or seven slide, you had minimal. Yeah, wait, but I mean, what I put in here actually is correct. This is not correct. I mean, the only thing that Proverif maybe can, I don't know, can be better to our summary is just the efficiency and not regarding the precision. That's what I mean. I mean, there has to be one row which should kind of show that. it's more efficient. So I didn't mean to say that this table is wrong. I was just saying that there is a row missing kind of. OK. So I see Jonathan is in the queue. So I will stop here and let other people ask. And then I was trying to understand here, minimal compromise scenarios. What does that mean? But I will come back to it later. Thanks. OK. You're welcome. Hi. Hi, it's Jonathan. Hi. I just, you mentioned something very briefly, and I didn't really understand how it worked. I'm, it is sick on six o'clock in the morning for me, so I'm a little bit slow today. How is the PSK ID bound to the PSK? Yeah. Okay. So that's actually, because I wanted to go back to this. Okay, so to be honest with you, so this is something. I mean, I was dealing with and was asking question regarding the ID CRIT PSK to the designers. And what I understood is that the ID CRITPSK is just an identifier. Either it's, I mean, it is locally, it locally bends, I mean, in the memory, the PSK on the initiator side and or on the responder side, or it's actually a different ID and which, I mean, locally different and it should bend the PSK and the participants to the same PSK. But I believe that it should be sent or known beforehand in the moment where the PSK is chaired with the initiator and the responder. Or maybe Elsa or someone in the working group can explain this further. So, because I remember when we were looking at Tamron, one of the, not Tamerun, sorry, at TLS. One of the things that was found, one of the attacks that was found was, if you end up in a misconfigured state where the client, the initiator, sorry, thinks ID, Kred, PSK corresponds to key one, but the responder thinks it corresponds to key two, they could both complete the protocol with the attacker and think it had all gone fine. Yeah. Yeah, I think to me there's something that should be specified more in the draft because, for instance, I can ask many, I mean, I have any questions regarding the ID PSK, for example, is the ID credit PSK, as I mentioned, locally the same for both, I mean, from the both point of views, or it's not locally the same? And also, is the ID credit PSK is the same when the participants, which roles? I mean, do we have even here the same PSK or not? So, so I don't know. So the way we modeled this is that it is known to both participants beforehand and it's actually the same. And it's just an identifier. So if I was doing this, modeling this in Tamarin, I would say that you should, that I would model it as the attacker as the attacker it chooses, like you literally just, the attacker says to the client, use this ID, credit PSK, and the response to use that credit ID PSK, because unless it's actually bound to the PSK, so like if your ID is the hash of the pre-shed key or something, then, then it's actually bounds of the key, but otherwise, it's just say that the attacker choose it. Okay. So I think you are talking about two, different things. It's the way you model it, or how it is in real life. So the way we're modeled is we apply only a function symbol on the PSK and the both identities credit I and and credit R. So it's actually bound to, I mean, bends to the both participants. But in real life, I don't really know how it should be implemented or maybe add to join. So, so for my, like, if you, if you want to model this, so that your model is going to capture attacks that might happen in real life, you shouldn't say, oh, we assume that it's perfect. You should model it saying, we assume that it's broken and then increase the requirements of the protocol until it fixes it. Yes, yes. Just some thoughts. Thank you. Yeah, yes. In the draft, it's not the identity. What the draft says currently is it does not force that the identity is bound to the PSK in a cryptographic way. It says that the receiver can find a PSK using the ID cred. And then it assumes that it's provisioned in a secure way. So I think any additional requirements would have to come for the formal analysis. And theoretically, you can add a lot of things. And if you have some unconstrained protocol like TLS is not a problem. But here, every bite count. So like any change that would add additional bias on the wire would have to discuss, then it becomes a trade off. Okay, thank you, John. So there is mailing in the queue. I was sorry to interrupt. Is there possible to change the agenda? It's because I'm the last item. I just need three minutes. I'm sorry, we're in the middle of a slot in formal analysis. Can we take the question after the after this lot? Okay. Yeah, okay. So I'm just going to add, I put in here to add to the remark of the last, I know how to say his name, sorry, I forgot your name regarding the PSK and IT credit PSK. So here ideally, yeah, we should have a model of stateful protocols where we have really, I mean, a table and a database where we can. actually store the ID credit PSK and the PSK, et cetera, and give the attack of the possibility to choose the ID credit PSK. Yeah, just some thoughts. Thank you. Okay, so we have one more person in the queue. I will lock the queue after because we are out of time. Musama, do you want to go ahead? Yeah, maybe a very quick one. So coming back on this minimal compromise scenarios, maybe you can give one example of how did you find these minimal ones because, adding these odds, it seems to me that there are multiple combinations possible. So maybe you can give a quick example of PRK secrecy upon agreement. How do you, how did you find that or how do you claim that to be the minimal? And how what was your kind of strategy in finding that minimal? Thanks. Yeah, okay. So to me, because, okay, how we found it, so maybe, so we can start first, we just an attacker who is just active, so without compromise scenarios. And then we start by one by one, I mean PSK alone, X alone, Y alone, PRK alone, right? And then if it's, if we find an attack, then we validate it. For example, here we found that it's not, the property is not verified with PRK, so we put PRK at the moment here. And then we start to look at the combination of tools, right, for instance, PSK and X or PSK and Y and et cetera. And if something, I mean, a combination is actually validated, then we move to the others until we have no other combinations. And that's how we can find the minimal. And here, actually, it's if and only if, I mean, secrecy upon agreement, if and only if we have this combination. That's what minimal means. Okay, thank you. Thank you, DECRA. So the time is over. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you for presenting. So what I hear is some additional clarification that might be needed for the draft. So I would kindly ask the draft authors to work with this formal analysis team that responded to the analysis in order to clarify the ID-C considerations in the draft. Thank you so much, Mnichael. Thank you, DECRA, from presenting and thank you for responding. to this call for formal analysis. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, we hear you also. Okay, so I'll try to be fast since we're a bit out of time. So I will be presenting the updates on the ad hoc with pre-shade key authentication, corresponding to draft version 7. Oh, sorry. So, yeah, the status of the presentation, we did some corrections on the test vectors after the latest updates on the draft. We also update the security properties after the formal analysis that was just presented. And we're working on the integration of EdHaw PSK into the Lakers' Rust implementation of ad hoc. So regarding the test vectors, little recap after the last ITF, there were some changes regarding PRK4E3M, TH transcript hash 4, and the external A18 in Cypacax3B. And those changes included the addition of the PSK or the grid I and grid R in these computations. These were not included into the computation of the test vectors. So we implemented, we did a new run of interoperability test using two implementations, one in Rust and one in C. And the test vectors were verified and updated. in the draft. Regarding the updates after formal analysis, so as DeKra mentioned, there were some properties that were not verified in terms of the identity protection. And so in fact, in the security properties, we updated a possible attack regarding the unlinkability of the initiator. So the assumption is that we have an active attacker, which is a man in the middle between the initiator and responder. So when the initiator sends a message 3, which contains the encrypted identity of IDQuad PSK, the attacker is going to intercept and modify this hypertext to modify the IDQ to modify the IDQ to one of his choices. This modified message 3 is going to be forward to the responder, and the responder is going to attempt to decrypt and verify the message. Now, because the cybertext is modified, the EIT verification will fail. However, depending on the behavior of the responder, the observer behavior of the responder, the attacker may obtain some information. So, for example, if there are different error types, whether it is an unknown credential versus an authentication failure or timing differences during the credential lookup. And this allows the attacker to test candidate identities and observe how the responder fails. So this is very related with how the protocol is implemented. Then I also mentioned that we are working on the integration of ad hoc PSK into Lakers implementation of ed hoc in Rust. And as for the next steps, well, after the presentation of formal analysis, I believe we need to clarify the ID credit PSK thing. And then I believe we might be ready to call for last call. But, yeah, so that's all for me. Thank you. Okay, thank you also. So I will wait for the green light from the author team on the working group last call. When I have that, we can start, when we have the new version of the draft, we can start the working for class. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you. So the next item in the agenda is, okay. Just this. Also, Elsa, I'm trying to give Elsa. I change the deck. I'm giving you the, I think you have a... So we are doing a little context switch. So let me introduce this. So we are, this is a work on the remote attestation that is happening. ELSA performed a formal analysis on this draft even though it wasn't formally called in the working group and requested for a slot to present this. And we have additional presentation by Usama on the formal analysis. After this, as well as followed by Yushwan's updates to the draft as the result of formal analysis. As a reminder, this is draft ITF lake array on remote attestation. Usama, yes, do you want to comment something quickly? Yeah. So very, very quick comment. So I would like to request the chairs since there is already two parallel works on formal analysis going on. It helps us as researchers if you launch an official call. For example, in the paper, we can cite that, hey, there was a call. Although we are already past that, so we would like to request the chairs if they can have an official call since both are already working on it. Thanks. Are you requesting the draft to be frozen or just a call on the list? Because typically the work? No, no. No, no, not frozen. So just a request for like officially that the call for formal analysis is required. That would be great help for us to justify this work and not by any means on frozen. Okay, that's okay. Sounds good. Sounds good. We can do that. Should I go? Okay, so me again, I will be presenting the formal analysis of Tri-Dief Lake remote attestation version 3 using Subic Plus. So, I'll later of the presentation. I'll be presenting the presentation. presenting the little summary recap of what remote attestation over ad hoc is. And in particular, I will be focusing on the studied models, which include the background check model, the passport model, and mutual attestation. I will then describe the claim security properties, which we divided in three categories, remote attestation properties, ad hoc properties, and combined properties. I will then define the symbolic analysis model that we used, and in particular, verification framework, SAPPIC Plus, and how we model the properties. And I will end up with the results that we found and the mitigations to these results. So the models that we studied, in the draft, there are two versions, two models described, which is the background check and the passport model. So we will be focusing on what we called unilateral attestation case one and four, so those that are in green. in which in the background check model, we have the initiator acting as a tester and the responder as the reliant party. And in the passport model, the roles are inverted. So we have the responder acting as a tester and the initiator as a relaying party. We also studied mutual attestation in which we have basically unilateral case 1 and 4 combined, so that both initiator and responder undergo attestation. So as far as for, For the case unilateral detestation case one, this corresponds to the background check model in which we have the initiator, so the IOT device working as an attester. Then we have the network service working as or acting as a relying party and then a trusted web service, server, sorry, that is the verifier. The ad hoc session, therefore, is established between the attester and the reliant party. And we see that the attestation information in ad hoc is going to be carried on on the external authorization data, so the EAD items. Then as for the unilateral case 4, this corresponds to the password model. And in this case, we have, now the attester is the responder and the relying part is the initiator, so the IOT device. And we see that in this passport model, we actually need a fourth message, an ad hoc fourth message, to transport the attestation result in the EAD4. 4. And then for mutual attestation, as I mentioned, so in this case, both the IOTD device and the network service and RICO attestation. So the network service attestation is going to employ the passport model, so what we call the unilateral case for. And the IOT device attestation is going to employ the background check model, so the unilateral attestation case number one. And similarly, we have the ad hoc session established between the attester and the blind party. So for the claimed properties, we base our definition and division of claim properties on Usama's paper that I cite below. So we divided them in three groups, the first one being the remote attestation properties. And we can highlight four properties here, which are freshness of both the evidence and the attestation result, and integrity, similarly of the evidence and the attestation result. result. So the freshness is going to ensure that the evidence or the attestation result reflect the current state of the attester or the relaying party, therefore avoiding replayed or outdated values. And this can be achieved by means of nons, a random nons. As for the integrity of the evidence and the attestation result, it's going to ensure that the evidence or the attestation result have not been altered in an authorized a manner. And this can be achieved by using a signature with the corresponding private key, then the other party can verify using the corresponding public key. As for the ad hoc properties, we have the mutual attestation, which is going to ensure that both parties verify each other's identity, preventing therefore impersonation and manning the mutual attacks. And then we have what is called combined properties, which is going to ensure that both parties, mix authentication and attestation. So we have channel binding, which is going to ensure that the attestation is cryptographically bound to the authentication. And we also have agreement of parameters, which is going to ensure that the responder's view of attestation and authentication parameters at the end of the protocol matches those of the initiators' point of view. So this property is going to ensure both authentication and attestation correctness. As for the formal verification, the we did this under a symbolic analysis model. This has already been presented by techrap before, so we'll be brief. So we have the DIY attacker that has full control of the communication. And the most important thing is that we have the perfect cryptography assumption in which the cryptographic remittables are not breakable. Therefore, the security failures must arise from the protocol design and not from breaking cryptography. And then we have the security properties that are going to be formally expressed as which ability or equivalences. As for Sapik Plus, as I mentioned, this framework allows us to use multiple, one input for multiple verifiers. And we defined a more advanced threat model to increase the capabilities of the attacker. And in this case, we included the compromise of the long-term keys, the leachshunds, the leachshunds, the lecture, which is the leakage of the formal keys, leakage of session key, and the leakage of attestation key. Regarding the modeling of the properties, so here are some snippets of how we model the properties for the mutual attestation case. So regarding the freshness, for the freshness of the evidence, and the result would be in a similar way, this is captured by requiring that if we have two verification events, referring to the same, the same honest ones, then this must correspond to the same protocol execution. As for the integrity, we expressed this as a responder's property. Therefore, successful verification will, by the responder, implies that this attestation was generated by the initiator with the same parameters. Otherwise, there was a compromise scenario. Then we have the combined properties, which are the channel binding and agreement of parameters. So for the channel binding, we state that a successful attestation acceptance by the responder, so if the event attestation accept R happened, then this means that there was a previous event, it was previously sent by an initiator, authenticated in that ad hoc session, unless a compromise event occurred. And for the agreement of parameters, this property will ensure that whenever a party finishes, which we see with the finish are, then there exists a unique peer execution that agrees on the same. authentication and attestation parameters. Therefore, finish I with the same parameters as the previous event, unless there was a compromise event. So the results, well, these are the minimal compromise scenarios again. So for the evidence, freshness and attestation versus all freshness, the results were verified. So the nonce is indeed going to guarantee that we have freshness in both. As for the integrity, we see that the compromise scenarios include the leakage of the attestation key and the long-term key, whereas is the PSK or the static TP Helmand key. We see that channel binding was not verified. And agreement of parameters, similarly, those were the minimal compromising areas. So what we saw regarding channel binding, in fact, we verified the properties in all four authentication methods, so the standard 0 to 3 authentication methods that are defined in the RFC plus the fourth authentication method that is being standardized in PSK. And we see the channel binding did not hold. And this is because there was, we found an attack due to the lack of a cryptographic binding between the attestation evidence and the authentication session. And in fact, this attack can happen without the leakage of the attestation key. So the description of the attack is as follows. If there was a compromise, If there was a compromise of the authentication keys, then we can have a man in the middle that establishes sessions with both endpoints, and it's going to obtain a valid authorization evidence from an honest tester. So the attacker will present the evidence within a different session, as if it were produced for that authentication channel. And if the evidence is not somehow bound to the session, then the verification is going to succeed. So what we proposed as a fix or as a mitigation was to indicate was to include the hash of the first two messages in the digitally signed attestation evidence. And this is because the hash contains information that is linked to the authentication session, including the ephemeral shared secret of that session that is unique to the session. Therefore, we are sure that an attacker cannot replay evidences from different sessions. And as for the next steps, it would be interesting to be interesting to be because we only check the case one and four, but maybe it would be interesting to have formal verification of the other cases. So with the roles inverted for each of the models. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you, Alza. So we have Jonathan in the queue and then Decker. Hi, Jonathan again. Could you possibly go back to slide 17? Yeah. Yeah. I'm surprised that that channel binding would work. Because usually you would want the, you want to also have the hash of some secret for the channel binding to be, for the channel binding to be correct. But, so when we include the, when we include the hash, in fact, the hash, as I said, contains this ephemeral shared secret. So, and this shared secret, it's unique to the session. So by including the hash, we are implicitly including the shared secret as well, which is going to bind into it. I don't, that, is that correct? Do you send the ephemeral shared secrets on the wire? on the wire? No, you just send the key shares, right? Sorry, can you repeat that again? So if, let's say you, the client sends G to the X and the service sends G to the Y, you haven't actually included G to the X y in your, you haven't actually included G to the X, In your channel, right. It's the ephemeral, so it's the transcript has two, for instance, contains the Y. So we would be including this public key into the hash. Mm-hmm. And therefore, I'd have to look at exactly how it's written, but I would be very surprised if that works without including some shared secret into the hash derivation. hash derivation. Yeah, I'll have to read the draft. Okay. Hello, Elsa. Can you please go again to the freshness lemma? And the way you formulated freshness? Yeah. Okay. So, is it, I mean, do you, here you don't have conditions regarding the PKI and PKR. So they should be different or they should be the same. I don't understand. So here we are saying that if we were to have, they could be different, they could be the same, but if the nons is in fact the same, that this means that these events must actually be the same, because we can not have. have announced that is repeated amongst different sessions because it's freshly generated. Yeah, but if they need to be the same, okay, so, yeah, I, because you know, some, some of this, I mean, security properties are not conventional security property, so that's why I was curious on how you formulate them. Okay, I will have to look at this again. Thank you. Okay. Yeah, so following upon what I understood from Jonathan, I think there is one thing more missing, which is that the identity of the endpoints itself is not yet established at the time you generate that evidence. That's my core concern, but I will talk about it in my talk. So I just wanted to know how that property that you have, if you go back to the channel binding property, binding property that you state. Yeah. So, so I'm a bit curious about, so the one where you show that was fixed. So I'm very skeptical about that being fixed because of the reason that the time at which you generate that evidence, it's not yet authenticated. So I will talk about it in my talk as well, so I just wanted to raise this issue. Okay. Okay. at this point because we are we have a fact agenda we are over time but thank you everyone for your comments it is great to see that these models are open source and published and I would invite all the interested folks to look at the models and to provide feedback to the working group concretely on the properties how they were defined and the models as they were defined so so some of you have minutes. I believe this is, this refers to the same version of the draft, Leikara 03. So yes, that's going. Yes. Okay. Thanks very much. This is joint work with Vyachislav and Yanmiri. And thanks to Yukshuan, Marco and Goran, who helped us in this work. And specifically, I want to describe the motivation why we already started even before the call for formal nurses was there our brand new charter basically says that we will borrow as far as possible from rats and TLS working group and this work was basically religiously following the draft for Sati TLS attestation to which I have been contributing and former analysis as per charter was welcome not specifically for this draft as I said the call but overall it is welcome so we already started the work since we had done the work for attested TLS. So we believe that it's a subtle addition. It does need formal analysis since we have found many attacks in formal analysis of a tested TLS. That's why we started already. And the kind of the thing is that from a tested DLS, what we have noticed is that the devil is in the details as the kind of a clumsy picture here. So I have three levels, which is the one at one B, level one, level two and level three, which is level one is the shared GXY. Level 2 is the, sorry, the handshake traffic secret of the client. And I'm taking from the client perspective, it can be also from the server perspective, because here the server is the tester, so client is the one who's going to send the secret. And level three at the bottom 2D is the application traffic secret of the client. And I want to make specifically two arguments here. Number one is that what Ecker actually raised at the time of the charting of the seat working group. group and he said that hey look this this handshift traffic secret is independent of the security team it's irrelevant and we checked that we removed all of this encryption which you see in the brown color ksh and kch these are the keys derived from the handshake traffic secret of the client and use for encryption of these messages so removing this encryption makes no difference on the security properties it's important for privacy not for security Second argument here is that HTSC, which is the handshift traffic secret of the client, is derived at the point in time where number two of authentication has not even started. So if we generate that evidence which is to be put into the certificate message in TLS, we don't actually get that guarantee. And moving on to from attested TLS to attested ad hoc, what we did was the approach overall as I posted in the one of the threads was we used modularity, that is to say both for model and the properties perspective, properties already was presented in one of the talks. So from the protocol perspective, what we did was this is the key exchange part, the first part, and then the authentication part that remains the same. We applied some abstractions, which we don't currently have a proof that they are completely sound, but that looks reasonable to us at the symbolic level and that's what we use currently. We are refining it further and we will also share the paper that we have ongoing on that. And analogies basically here mean that which key represents which which key from TLS represents which key in ad hoc. So that's the kind of analogies that we did here. And based on that, what we have is the results for correlation properties which we presented in UFMRG in last meeting apply as is to this. is to this protocol version 3. There is no binding, as Elsa already pointed out. So there is no binding from the evidence to that specific connection, which is established. And with that, it would cause all of the three bindings, that is to the GXY, the shared secrets, handshift traffic secret, and the application traffic secret corresponding to the TLS properties still apply in this case. And the proposed fix specifically for this is to be. use post-handshake attestation because of the server authentication not being there. And in this case, the responder one not being there. So that's pretty much it. I see Yuxuan in the queue. Yes, please. Okay, hi, I'm Mishuan. So after your slide was uploaded, I have sent them email in the working group to ask, like, if you have any links that can provide to tell us like how you got these results for the drive attested ad hoc because from all your public results I think these are all for the results for the formal analysis of attested TLS and I'll read that tested ad hoc somehow follows the attestate TLS in the attestate TLS in the attestation part but still they are two different drafts so and also from your reply I didn't see that you provide the links for the model that you have for the draft attested ad hoc. So I do not agree that here in the table of the results, you put the draft lake RA here because you, at least from we know, you do not have a real model that is only for a tested ad hoc. And you, I don't think it's correct to just copy the results for a tested TLS and then put it here in the table for the tested ad hoc. So yeah, that's my, that's what I think. Okay. So I want to recall you that we had a meeting between you as a and Yuxa, sorry, the militia in December 22 around of that time. So we had a long discussion about that where I explained you all these attacks. And you're right, we don't have the model as Elsa has. We have modularity and analogies and abstractions, which I explained, and we will that all public once we have that paper accepted. So I will explain you again how all that works, but I completely disagree with you that the attacks do not apply. We have, there might be soundness reasoning that, hey, this doesn't, the abstraction is not sound, that's fine, but the attacks do apply and I can share with you the attack crisis. That's something I can share with you. Yeah, and actually the reason I asked this question is because I completely understand what you explained to me, because what you explained to me is the text that you found in Attached ATLS. And as you said, Elsa also had the formal analysis because, and she also shared the public source code for the formal analysis. And here, I think you are just copy the results you have for the attest at least. So I don't think in this sense. Yeah, it might not make sense to you. It makes perfect. sense to me because it's just following the same protocol and the same analogy. So you might disagree, but the attack crisis are two different protocols with two different key schedules. So it would be, it would be useful to the working group, I agree, to have the models published. So as soon as you have the paper, the publication pending or whatever published, it will be good to send this to the working group so that you can examine closely. Sure. Yeah, I already pointed out that we will share it and it will be under Apache II license so everybody can have a look and satisfy themselves. And I believe that this feedback is already sufficient for the editor to move forward. Okay. Thank you, Sama. Thank you for doing this work. So we have Rang in the in the queue. So I have the comments of your proposal. The fix is Jun-Jang from Huawei. So security is important, but the security is not everything. So this morning where everyone has not that there's a crash of the internet connection, right, for the, for the, everything's cut off. This is because if you have very serious, important consideration of the security, you do not have a good usability. So in this case, for the attest ad hoc, sometimes we need very small delays so that if you have the post handshake, you will violate the requirement of the application in the attest ad hoc. So I have some draft, submit to the seat, but due to the time delay, I have not a success of submit, but I will share my consideration in the seat working group, and so welcome for the feedback. Thank you. So your concern is about attested TLS or attested ad hoc? Which one, June? For the general case, all that the security is not every seat. You need to consider the trade-up. Yeah. That's fine to have both solutions. I mean, I'm not advocating to have post-hand shake only if you want. So if there is some genuine concern that you have or a genuine case, I would really love to have a look at the use case that you are mentioning. If that's worth it, that we still live with the attacks which are possible. Thanks. Thank you, moving on. Thank you. Yes, we need to move on. So the next slot is the draft IDF LA Cara 04, presented by Ushron. So this will present in my understanding the updates to the draft as they have been done after following ELSA's presentation. Yeah, so hi, I'm Yushuan and this is for the updates for the draft remote testation over I talk. Next slide, please. Have this slide clicker normally. I don't think it works. Now you have it again? Yes. Yeah, yeah, okay, good. Okay, so a quick recap is that this draft specifies how to perform the attestation by using the ad hoc EAD fields. And the figure here is an example for the mutual attestation, which is defined in the draft. So for the updates we have, the first one is based on the formal verification results from IOSA who just presented. I also will just present it. So the results show the attestation evidence is not bound to the authentication session. So when the authentication key leaks, it may have a potential relay attack that the attester, the party who generates the evidence, is not guaranteed to be the initiator who authenticate. So the figure here is also like quite similar to what I also had in her slide. So when the attacker can impersonate, when he can impersonate the ad hoc roles, and has two different sessions, then the evidence that is generated in session A by the initiator A will be received by the attacker and then be related to the session B. And since the evidence is not bound to the authentication session, so here the evidence which is generated in the session A will also be accepted by the session B, by the responder B. So this is something that we found the channel binding does not hold in the version 3 in our draft. So then we have the mitigation as an attestation binder. So this was added in the current version. And also like followed by the suggestion from the verification results from ELSA. So when we have the attester as initiator, we have the evidence that is sent in EAD3, which is in ad hoc message 3. And here we have the attestation binder which is defined as the hash of the first two messages. And the hash algorithm is the select case sepher sealed in ad hoc. And then because of the implementation considerations and also to be aligned with the draft lake oath, we decided to change in the next version to let the attestation binder be the hash of the hash of message 1, message 2. And also this attestation binder must be included in the evidence and then signed by the attestation key. So as you see, see here, when we have the evidence that contains the attestiner binder, which is the hash of the first two messages. And this hash of the first two messages is somehow session unique. So in this way, we can say like the evidence is cryptoporically bound to the authentication session. So when the responder receives this evidence, he will check if the attestation binder is the correct one because the responder, the responder itself will also generate the attestation by calculating the hash value. So if it's the same, then is correct. Otherwise, it will not continue the following operation. And then we also have the case that the attester is the responder. So this happens when evidence is sent in message four in EAD4. So as in ad hoc, we know that after three messages, we have the final session key derived. So here we define the attestation binder that is derived by the ad hoc exporter. So if you know ad hoc, you will know that ad hoc exporter is derived by the final session key. So in this way, we can bind the evidence with the authentication session. And of course, the same this attic session binder must be included in the evidence and signed by the attestation key. And then for the next issue, which I remember was raised by Carson. We this time fixed the CDL syntax arrows throughout the draft. And I think which was also mentioned by Carson that we are thinking if it's possible to validate the CDDL syntax as part of the continuous integration. I don't know if Carson is here today, but if he's still willing to help or give any guidance, it will be very appreciated. And then we have some issues for the clarifications and editorials. So we explain the difference between the background check model and the password model. model. And then we add the rights part in the privacy consideration as well. And then we added the requirement of the ability to generate random nons because when the Reliant Party is the one who needs to generate the nons to guarantee the freshness of the attestine results, we need to make sure that this reliant party, when it's a constrained device, has the ability to generate a real random nuns. Okay, that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. have two people in the queue, Usama and Jung. So, Usama, you want to go? Yeah. Yeah, so I will put your question back to you. So why do you think that the attacks do not apply in your specific case? And I want to follow up also on Manisha's point, specifically here. So at the symbolic level, if we talk about the symbolic security analysis, basically if you see that the functions are assumed to be ideal. So that doesn't matter whether it's TLS key schedule or it's ad hoc schedule, that's how the proof is derived. But I want you to explain me why do you believe that number one, the hashes that you have used are sufficient, and number two, why do you believe that the attacks are not possible? So I will cut it here, Samma, please. I mean, so there is a point of disagreement in the group on this. So I think we all agree on that. One group has published their models. You have not, and you have not provided the attack traces. As soon as you do that, we will be able to discuss in details this matter further. So I would postpone this discussion to that point once you can publish the models. Thank you. Yeah, and also I've sent you, Usama, I will send you the email to say that we can have the meeting, but I didn't receive the response. So if you are available, we can also have a meeting to discuss this deeper. Let's please take that offline. So we have another comment. And so for your operation, you will take the hash of the message one. So what do you think that if you use the X or instead? It will be better or it's an alternative for that message one with X or certain value? So for a lightweight operation. So this is the first comments. And for the second one is that, so you see that in some plans with the really party general nouns. So when it is. do not have the ability to generate a very strong random number. You can look at the recent epoch marker one, so that epoch marker will generate a strong, strong epoch ID. They will say that you can have the conconate of the random number generated by the rate with the one from the epoch marker so that we will generate a stronger random number. So you can have a look at that. Okay, okay, thank you. Yes. Confused by the discussion seems like Osama claims that the TLS attacks apply to 03 and probably also the 04 and then Elsa has formally verified 04. Okay, yeah. It seems, I don't know, it seems to be, seems like like, like. I have not read any of this, but it seems like some simple misunderstanding. Probably an offline meeting would sold that. Agreed. So, yeah, I would propose to the authors and the involved parties to have an off-office meeting and then to feedback to the working group based on the discussions during that meeting. Thank you, John. Okay. So with that, we can move on. The next item in the agenda is draft ITF Lake Odds, presented by Joanne. All right. Yes, it works. Thank you. All right. So Jovan here. And I'm presenting updates on version 077. seven of lightweight authorization using adhawks. So big reorganization of the draft, we found a vulnerability where the device, the initiator, you can be impersonated to W. So to give context, so you can ask for a voucher via a domain authentic via a domain authenticator V and which will forward. this request to W and which will upon authorizing this request reply with a voucher which is then sent back to the device you yes and this voucher it can be it can mean binary decision authorize it or not authorize it or it can contain some opaque information detailing whether what kind of capabilities the device is allowed to do in the network example to trust more or less or do different capabilities related to the network that is it's joining or the type of domain it's enrolling so this is the context and then uh what we found is that if for example if impersonate this you when doing this request to w then w will still issue a valid voucher for you so what happens is if if learns the id you the identity information of the device which is not secret from a legitimate you it can construct a valid voucher info which contains that identity information and will be read by w and if that is in the authorization policies then it will will generate a valid voucher which is sent back to if and then if can decrypt that voucher and so it can learn whether or not you is authorized it even after and after if can just not continue with the with the protocol and give up or if it continues then we will realize that if does not have the right have the right cred you transmitted in message three and then the protocol will fail but at that point if already learned something about so that's the consequence so that there is an information leak where if learns what you can do in the system so as i said in the more simple case is a binary authorized or not authorized information leak in the most complicated case you if can keep learning about what devices can do in the network so then then yeah this slide is just what i just explained if there is no opa key info is a binary yes no if there is opeki info there is more information and so the solution is actually a major protocol update so where we move it the request which was before it was happening to use the eid fields from ad hoc message one and two we move it to message three and four because with that we give the chance to v to first check if the device the initiator it's actually if it actually contains a valid credential before doing the authorization and this actually aligns with doing first authentication and then after doing authorization and before we are authorizing something before checking the real identity of the device So that's the overview. And now I'll go into the details of several changes that are were done as a consequence of this change. So one of them is that because now we start the protocol in message three instead of starting it in message one. So then we don't use an additional identity for you anymore because message three already carries ID credit I so we just rely on that ID credit eye and then we forward it to the V will forward ID credit I to W on the voucher request. So that means that the voucher info, which is carried in message three, also does not carry IDU because that would be redundant. This has an implication that because normally ID credit I is supposed to be understood only between you and V, but in this particular case, ID credit I must also be understood by W. So we have a restriction on the namespace of IEGRAD. I think that it should be unambiguous also to W, which makes sense because this is a use case, a very particular use case where W is also involved. The second implication is that we modified the external AAD of generating the voucher, because before we were binding it to the session using the hash of the handshake and the credential of V, and now we don't have the identity of you in the hash of handshake anymore. So we actually decouple it, so we have the hash of message 2 and 1, IDCREDI, and CRADI and CRADV to bind to the ADOC session, also to you and to V. And this also has the advantage of working, the same structure works for both the forward follow and the reverse flow of the draft. And another implication is that in this new protocol approach, the two round time join with in conjunction with constrained joint protocol is no longer applicable because we don't have really a way to carry the last message together with message for so then we remove it that appendix some other changes still part of this this PR of this update where is that now is that more flexible on when it can ask for, when it can decide to fetch or actually verify the credential of you. So we live to V the decision of whether to process the EAD field tree of Lake Alts as a pre-verification EAD item or a post-verification EID item. And these aligns with the implementation consideration drafts. So in case V wants to do a consider the EAD field as a post-verification EAD item. It can also rely, try to rely rely on W to obtain a credential, the credential of you. So then it can indicate to W using the field fetch credit U that it wants to obtain the credential of you. And W, if it has this credential, it will return on the virtual response. We haven't been question why W is not always sending it back. And the reason is that the responsibility of fetching credit U is on V. And W may help if it's available, but it's not the responsibility of W. So that's why the returning of credit U is optional. And with this, in this NPR, we also made EAD for optional. So this was discussed in a previous version of the document. But then we got comment by Chris Christian and so we make the whole EAD4 optional instead of only the voucher so this also makes processing the protocol more clean. This change also makes the protocol now compatible with lake ad hoc application profiles so that message one and message two are now free to be used to advertise ELAS support so that UNV can advertise that they implement this protocol. And this was a subject of discussion in previous versions. So now this is one clear solution. And we added an example in appendix 8.1. We also addressed the issue of support ad hoc with post quantum security cipher suites. So we added an extra field called ephemeral keys underscore ciphertext. So depending on the ad hoc key exchange algorithm, that is selected on the cypher suite, then this field will mean a dipherman public key or a can encapsulation key. We had an open issue of allowing for the keys of V&W to be the same, but this was the main use case was to perform a sort of encrypted client hello, but since now we are moving to message three to start the protocol so that use case is not applicable. So we close the issue. we have an open PR with a discussion about clarifying that fetch credit you is best effort and in which cases if V fails to obtain the credential the session is aborted and a recent PR developed during the hackathon here at this iATF 125 with a review by Marco so thank you Marco several clarifications on the use together with Lake application not reusing the ephemeral key of ad hoc in the new version and determining we also discuss it that it makes sense that we always use the same credential with you and w because there is a particular use case a situation if v uses more than one credential we want that the credential used with you is the same that is used with the That simplifies when W needs to compute the voucher, which credential to use to do the binding with the identity of V. We updated the interoperability section where we defined that V must support both flows so that we can have a default interoperable case. Some adjustments on the rest error codes and some editorial fixes. So this was a very good review. And we also sync it with Lake Remote Attestation to rename and adjust the order of the fields so that we define the ad hoc session binding that is used in generating the voucher to use the same order of fields. So we have the hash of message one and message two. This is also good for the implementation because on the message one, we also we already saved the hash of message one after processing it because we needed after. And next steps, first of course is resolving in the last open PRs, but we believe that this, the document is solved several of the points that were open and hopefully it's all ready for an open working group last call. So Christian has a comment. Yeah, thanks for all that work. I think that moving everything down from messages one, two to messages three, four is premature because I think that there are better mitigations for the leaked information of, for the attack that you found. I'm working on writing that all up. We've already been discussing. So I really appreciate that we could with the older version do code JP much better and that a lot of the a lot of the exchange can be done with really really small and short messages and I hope that we can preserve this without moving everything down down message okay so I believe we can have a discussion internally about this but one of the questions is that when we did this this modification we also simplified a lot the protocol so we rely less on specific new cryptographic elements so it's also more in a way more cryptographically safe to it's it's it's as a more thin layer on top of ad hoc to to watch we we can achieve okay so we have zhang So go back to the slide, you mentioned that in this person, I have to go back to use the I, uh, ID, Credit I. Uh, um, is one. Um, um, okay. Uh, yes, go, go back, uh, credit you. Wait, is this one? Or not. Uh, uh, maybe two slides. uh, yes, I just spoke in this one. So, yes, just a slide up to it. I'm seeing that whether there's a problem of the privacy. So in your case, do you need to consider the privacy or not? Depends on use cases. Yes. So in the previous version of the draft, we were protecting the identity of the device, but at the cost of doing authorization without checking, without really authenticating. the device. Yeah. So that's the trade-off we did. Yeah. So it depends. You can, you can have a look at it to see whether you need to have some some way to credit privacy or not. Correct. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Joanna. So what I hear is that Christian would like to discuss this a little bit further. So I propose that we have an off-list meeting between you guys and then that you come back to the working group with the conclusion of that meeting whether we can proceed as is merged now, I understand, or we revert back to the old flow. Okay, so we are quite a bit over time. So Marco, if you could trim off for some minutes on your two presentation, that would be highly appreciated to give speakers at the end of the agenda opportunity to present. That's right. Thanks. Hi, everyone. This is an update on the implementation consideration draft. Next slide, please. You have control, Marco, I think. Oh, thank you, of course. Yeah, this has been always about providing consideration for implementers of EDOC to not reinvent the wheel or rethink about old-fashioned problems. It's the same set of topics covered almost from the beginning of this document as a working group document. And other than touching on these points, in general, two other documents have been considered as case in point beyond the basic Edo protocol, meaning the Edo Kendozker profile vase in this working group and the ELA document that Giovanna has just presented. So since two versions ago, actually, other than editorial improvements, most of the updates have been related to the work that was going on on ELA, that in Giovanni presented. That inspired, first of all, some additional general contents of which EDA is a particular example. If one of the Edoch peers learn a new credential on the fly and that credential is valid, it might be that in some cases that credential is to be treated during the Edoch session just as provisionally trusted, because some confirmation of that has to come later on in the execution of Edoch. For example, the voucher in a ELA. So that was discussed in general terms as a concept in Section 3 and then in the particular ELA related section 332. And then in general, again, on the processing of an incoming message with particular reference to message 2 and 3, as those were the credentials come. So if anything is going to change again in the ELA document, I think the general concept is still good to have and found out. And worst case, it's about, well, changing the ELA specific session to something else to reflect the latest version of the ELA document. And also related to ELA when it comes to its specific session, well, here I just try to write things in the spirit of this document aligned with a new regular flow that was updated in ELA while the reverse one got unchanged as far as I understood. Thinking from the point of view of the considerations given in this document, if a peer learns credential on the fly, well, it really accepts it. If the learning policy is just called learning, so the very general one, if it's no learning, it's still fine if you have compelling exceptions enabling that. And in the case of ELA, the exceptions would be, well, for the initiator explicitly opting in to run the ELA procedure with the expectation to request and obtain the voucher. And for the reverse message flow, it's even more explicit, the initiator who have been in receiving the voucher. More updates, somehow still related to Ella, again, were inspired by Christian in an open issue that was crossing this document and the ELA document where in its previous version, in case the voucher was not issued, there was the EID item included, but with no value. Ella changed that, I'm happy to see that also. Well, in that case, the EID item is not included altogether. which is better actually and that triggered talked about the implementation of an ad hoc peer as a peer receiving an incoming message is supposed to be absolutely able to detect the absence of any AD item especially if it's an expected one that was kind of requested for like in ELA again expecting a requested voucher so in this document taking again as a case in point and the relevant example there's also just general discussion about this expectation on implementations. They have to be able to track expected VAD items and to detect their absence. And if something really expected is absent, well, that may be a reason, depending on the procedure in question, to terminate the session. Yeah, it's becoming more and more expected in the near future. It will be formally expected, I believe, to include operational considerations. in document according to an OPSA working draft right now. I tried here, I believe this draft doesn't really have anything special to say from that side. And if so, well, you are still supposed to include the section with a well-known boilerplate, just giving a reason why. And that's literally what you find in the very short section I added on this topic in the document. I believe at least that to be the case. So I believe everything I could think about was put out here and I could benefit of some of other people experience mostly Kristen and Giovanni largely related to Ella and also covering the other ACE document taking another angle. This is just again a summary of this update. I believe this should be ready for working group as call now. Okay, great news, Marco, thank you. So let's write this draft in the queue for working group to last calls to launch after this meeting. So I believe the first one is Greece that we agreed on and the second one is this draft. And with that, I guess we can proceed to the next presentation. And give me one second. I have to take control back. You are good to go, Marco. Thank you. This is nothing on the other draft on the up profiles. And to recap, this document started to provide a number of means or a toolbox if you want to help Edoch peers coordinating about what they support in terms of Edoch features and capabilities or so-called Edo application profiles. This can be expressed in two different flavors, a la carte, just spelling out the features or as a compact menu, meaning the profile identified by an integer abbreviation. And there are different ways or venue. ways or venues where you can express these preferences or advertised supports. They have been quite stable for a while now. They are during the edoc session in itself or out of it, typically in advance. Yeah, since the previous version, other than editorial touches, there was a little qualification to give that was identified during the presentation in Vancouver in November. Peers have to be vigilant that if they learn about something prescriptive that it really has to happen during an end of session, and then there's a violation about that by the other peer. That evaluation does have to happen upon receiving a message, but not only it has to continue throughout the execution of the session, of course. Otherwise, the session is to be aborted. It was just about those four red words to add. Yeah, I revised the CDL grammar. Grammar, there was a mistake in one grammar now fixed. I defined the CDL Grammar for two of the parameters defined in this document in the same namespace, otherwise mainly defined in the A's document creating the overall data structure and registry. After submission, I just noticed a typo in the bottom right grammar there. It's correct in the slide, it's wrong in the draft, I'll fix that in the next revision. It should really say export. outland like in the slide. Yeah, I'll also consider issues from Christian, especially number one. Thank you. It was basically an invite to revisit the set of parameters that were frothing around us, if really necessary or instead possible to remove. Yes, four were definitely possible to remove, considering the experience we now have more about Edo compared to the time of the standardization. And the actual removal of the parameter definition happened in the document where they went defined, the case document. In this document, of course, we removed their use or discussion, and we also removed the definition of the corresponding link target attributes that could be used when using web link as an advertisement means. That also resulted in the removal of some corresponding new IANA registries that we were defining. About this, it refers to the new EAD item that we are defining in order to advertise the peers capabilities during the execution of EEOC itself. This slides refers specifically to the use of the EDI item in Message 1, where the initiator can optionally include one one Boolean flag at the beginning of the EDIT item value. I renamed that from reply flag to advertise flag because this needs name fits better for the new possible use that comes in the next slide. But this slide focuses on the original use in the EAD item. The semantics is still the same. If included, the flag can be true or false. True is an invitation to the responder to talk about itself in the following end of message. A fall means don't bother telling me. I clarify how it is possible to still use that for the initiator in case the initiator does want, to ask the responder to talk about itself, but the initiator also doesn't have anything to say about itself in Message 1. That is still indeed possible by setting the flag followed by essentially no information about itself. I think it was worth spelling this out. But on the new use I anticipated, that was also suggested by Christian in another issue. Thanks again. This same data point, would also be useful when advertising the edoc capabilities of a server in SVCB record, resource records return when doing DNS resolution for that server. I had to re-engineer a bit the semantic of the wire format of the SVC key related to this information about the server. The final effect is basically that the information that could be provided before now can also be optionally prepainted by that bullion flag if present has as only possible value through and the server is indirectly saying to whatever other peer finds it through the NS discovery that well the other peer that has found the server is very encouraged to tell about itself to this server when running edoc just for the sake of disclosing its adoc supports a lot of examples that I promised in Vancouver. One is about the use of curling format with a particular use of some target attributes related to the supported trust anchors that was missing and I think we're doing. All other examples are in cyber-dagnostic notation when using essentially the different means of advertisement. So the EDIT item in Message 1 or 2, the EdoC error message with a new error code, and the wire format for the two new introduced SVC param keys when using the SVCB resource records. Yeah, I also visited finally the security considerations other than obvious inherited ones. I try to emphasize that some approaches for this advertisement are unavoidably non-protected, for for example, relying on EAD1, in end of message 1, on discovery, on discovery, from Wilhelm Corps that is not protected. If you acquire this information through an unprotected channel, you really need to bear that in mind and treat them as a hint. Worst case, an adversary may induce you to have wrong expectations of the other peers' capabilities, but this shouldn't really have any impact of the security of the other protocol in itself that eventually is performed according to what the two peers really agreed to do in the first first two messages, for example, out of the cipher suite negotiation. And like mentioned in the previous presentation, since this is a raising expectation. I also added a section on operational considerations. Here there was quite something to say, actually. I think that fundamentally what this draft proposes is also in the interest of operational consideration to have the network run in a smoother way, since it facilitates EDOPEOPEO to agree on how to run EDOC and to discover each other's capabilities. And as long as this advertisement happens in some non-protected ways, and there are a few, like I mentioned, before, operators may even take advantage of that and understand most preferred ways or most supported ways to run EDOC. And in turn, build on that information to do some fine-tuning of the network setups or to learn what are the most popular, favoured, favoured whatever EDOC application profiles that may deserve more attention in terms of maintenance and implementation. And on the other end, on the peer side, I'm trying to encourage peers to remember what they have learned about other peers, just to not rediscovered the same things over and over with possible additional network traffic that can be avoided. And even EDOC session fails in spite advertised capabilities of other peers were followed by the book. Well, that should be reported. and it's possibly the starting point to detect anomalies and misbehaviors and peers to remove from the network. Yeah, I also think this draft is complete from an author team point of view in terms of content. There's no open issues or points, as far as I know. And content-wise, it should also be ready for working group plus call. I just wanted to point out it as two drafts as normative references. One should define calls, it's in ISG evaluation now. So if you have an online certificate. The other one is the edocandoscar application profile. In ACE, the working group is still working on it. So even though, again, I believe this should be read in itself for working group plus call, and maybe time-wise, that dependency can be factored in to have the working group plus call later. But I leave that consideration to chairs and AD. Thank you. Thanks, Marco. So I would suggest. we proceed with the working group last call and then the second draft can wait on, we can wait in the ISGQ like once the other draft aligns with us essentially. Fantastic. Thank you. Yeah. So the action item, same as for the previous draft, add this draft to the queue of working group last call items to launch after this meeting. Thanks, Masha. Thank you, Marco, and thank you for being concise. So we have 18 minutes to go in the meeting and I believe we have four, three presentations and one time permitting. So if everyone can shim off like a couple of minutes of their allocated time, that would be highly appreciated. Hi. Well, I am Lydia Pofferro from the Industrial System Institute and I will present the last updates in our drafts regarding a canvas notification. Let me just interrupt you for a second. I forgot to introduce that we are now skipping to the individual drafts. So Marko's presentation concluded the adopted drafts of the working group, and we are now passing to the individual drafts, and these mostly consider quantum-resistant ad hoc methods. Well, let me just summarize the current post-quantum support in the network. It means that from the Ethbook RFC, they will already introduce it that the use of the female camps which we make it with the method zero. And also is the draft for the Cyphersuit quantum resistance that in a way complete the post-quantone signature basis in the end hoc. And also, the method, the present key method, using corresponding quantum resistant ephemeral ken, will also be quantum resistant. Then, just tell that both approach has some limitation, because the pressure-key-based approach required this present knowledge, and on the other way, the post-quantum-basic, symmetric basis, ephob, introduce significant overhead, when we are speaking. about these standardised signature scams that have longer key sides, high processing time, and high memory overhead. And that brings us to the motivation of our draft that is to complete this post-quantrum portfolio with the chem-based authentication method that provide signature-free authentication for one or both parties. We first addressed the post-quant equivalent of method three. method 3, where both parties use static ken keepers for authentication. And starting from the version 1 of the draft, we extend this work to also support post-quantirons versions of EFOC method 1 and 2 by allowing hybrid authentication combinations. Well, in the method 4, we have this in which both parties have the synodotrophy of authentication. And a female game is used for the key exchange. for the keys chain and a chem mechanism authentication for both the initiator and the responder are using. Unlike of the Diffi-Hellman, authentication, he is now receiving an encapsulation of its static key first, which are the key confirmation step, resulting in this five message handshake. The method five provides signature-free authentication for the initiator. Then the initiator use chems and math, and the responder use a message. use a signature to authenticate itself and just make the reference that in a different approach in which we will like to authenticate early, instead of put the signature in the message 4, we could bring the signature to a message to that as just the method to make it, but in a way we will stop to have the same scam for all the game-based effort. When we speak out the method C is now the responder who is only the signature 3. And now the message 4 is half a mark and message 5 have the signature. Again, this signature can come to message 3, that we will reduce the message sites because we don't need the message 5 anymore. But again, the methods between them will not keep the same structure to 4K basis. And this is the key schedule that we have already speak about. We don't have time. Let's go directly to what change comes in the last version. The first one is just we identified was an issue with the ordering which we computed the transcription half of PRK and we solved it. We then add a transfer consideration section because the post-per consideration section because the post-quantum terms and signal to produce much larger methods, air-truth message may excess the MTO limit in constraint network, and in this case, fragmentation and the transport layer may be recurred, and with reference mechanisms for a blow-wise transfer that can come as possible solutions. And notice that with this larger messes and fragmentation requiring an acknowledgement, the key goal in the design should focus on reducing the overall handshake side, greater than the number of messages. There has been some questions regarding, oh, wait, because I think, sorry, I passed two times, yes, and there has been some questions regarding against active attacks, because it's important to try to have the same properties, the property as the original as well, let me tell one more, that the initiator credential are encrypted in message three, using aid, with a key derivates from the female sales secret and the responder study series secret. Then, only the legitimate responder who owns the corresponding private key can derive the key, decry the message, and retrieve the initiative credential. And then to also prevent the initiator from revealing its identity to untrusted responders and to stay aligned with the original ETHO, we have the requirement that the responder credential must be authenticated and validated by the application before the initiator sent its own credentials. And the last chain. Wait, sorry. It's different order there. The last is that we also add a new section, that is the KEM security consideration section, because prior research saw that in CCA2 security alone is not always sufficient for Kemp-based key exchange protocols, because there may still be vulnerable to reencapsulation attacks, which can lead to unknow key cell situation, where two parties there is the same secret, but associated with the different identities. For this, we clarify that the Kemp used in this this protocol must be in situ secure and ensure that the Ritzel secret is cryptographically bound to the recipient's public fee. These two things are guaranteed for Schemps and some to some ML Chem. We also are collaborating with Vicanari from AET Delhi to try to formal verify the protocol. Since, uh, we also are collaborating with Vicernavi from AET Delhi to try to try to formal verify the protocol since uh we have using firstly the tamarin tool and we are trying we are focusing the method for and since the chemical encapsulation output both cyphersuit and secret we introduced two functions of chem and KMNCSS to adopt it we also define the KMtik TAR to read the public key from a secret key and add some necessary equations in tamarine but just because we don't have time just to fast tell you what we have achieved until now that this work work in progress, we have no finish. But first we have proved, uh, wait, sorry, secrecy, secrecy on the final season, meaning that once the protocol completes only the initiator and the responder know this scheme. Second, we have injecting agreement for the initiator, which ensured that if the initiator finished season believing in communication with a specific responder, then that responder must have participated in exactly one much decision with him. and also then getting agreement for the responder. And we manage us to verify other properties and set to see of intermediate materials and perfect for work secrecy. And our next step is to work in this formal verify, this of the identity protection of credentials, that we have to move for this to the proof verify tool. And we expect to have this finished before the next, the next ITF meeting. Just for the last, for the second that, just I wanted to tell little things that the, to notice that the goal of this to reduce the handset to three methods, target in this scenario, when the initiator already knows the responder credential. And once of the main update is in this version two, is we highlight the decision principle of this protocol, which followed the decision principle of this protocol, which which followed the noise framework. In this design, its new series secret is immediately incorporated to the key schedule, improving the preparation of the sequence message. For this reason, the key schedule is adapted to incorporate all series figures that are already available after message one for the respondent and after message two for the initiator. And in this way, we prioritise maintaining the design principle of the framework rather than keeping the case schedule identical to the original There are the summary of the last chain that we make even because we don't have a lot. Yes, thank you a lot. Thank you, Lydia. So we have Decre in the queue. Yeah, thank you for the presentation. So you said that you worked with Tamarin, right? And for the formal analysis. And as far as I know, the standard way to model chem in Tamarin is that you use just asymmetric encryption. Did you use asymmetric encryption to model the chem? Or is it another? To these questions, it may will be better to speed directly with the device analysis that today couldn't be here. But the model that we use was similar to the model that they use KEM TLS. So we are in one of their papers. And they have their model of them in GitHub, and we use the same approach. But for more, details again, be free to mail Vice Anavir that is more structured in this, but today could then join us to explain it better. Yeah, okay. So just one single remark regarding that, because the standard way is just just use asymmetric encryption. So the message is the secret, the shared secret in the cam, so that the shared secret won't be, I mean, bends the static key. So that's my only concern regarding that. So maybe you can, uh, use a library in tamarine, which is, I mean, more sophisticated into bindings, the static keys, etc. And also just a small remark that, I mean, the bending properties that in the chem do not just specific, are not just specific to the static keys, so that we have many bindings properties, for example, for the ciphertext, etc. So maybe you should investigate this further. Thank you. Okay, for sure. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you. So we locked the queue. We locked the queue here. Thank you, Lydia, for presenting. And we have one more presentation on, on the zero-zero version of a new draft that was submitted by Clement. Clement, can you... Hello? Let's say you have five minutes, because we would like to conclude the meeting at the end. Thank you. Okay. Do you hear me well? Okay. So hello, so I'm Clement Papon, a PhD student at in Limurge in France and I'm working on cryptography. So today I would like to present you some proposal for PostcomTun Secure Extension for EDOC. So there's five protocol proposal. I will just review two of them today. So the first one is the variant of what Lydia proposed. When the initiator already know the responder, I will try to propose a flexible way where the initiator can authenticate using post-contum signature. So here it goes. So in green we retrieve the ephemeral chem as already explained. And the initiator already is knowing the responder identity can send the ciphertext of the response. of the responder in the first message, but we do no more have here an encryption, and it authenticate itself with a MAC in the second message. And in this case, the responders, the initiator, sorry, can authenticate with, in the EDOC classical way, with a signature in the third message. And so here we only have three mandatory message. That's a first proposal to make it more suitable with the traditional EDOC protocol. A second proposal in a more classical case is when the, so we return to a more classical case and this time we suggest the authentication for the responder with a chem and the signature. So in fact here in the second message highlighted in a range, the responders provide a signature of a message that the initiator can retrieve locally on its sides. And so at the end of the, when we receive the second message, it can already authenticate the responder and send him in the third message, the associated ciphertext, and also in red, it's authentication. So in this case, we do no more have a fourth mandatory message, we only have three mandatory message. And the only fact here is that we have one more signature in the second message. But we do no more, we do no more need to compute a Mac on each side. So it only, if you are a little bit, the second message with this signature, but not the computational part on each side. So we are variant, in fact, the four, the three other protocols. that we propose in the draft are some variant of that one protocol, I mean by using signature and chem combined at the same time. So I will not describe all of them. That was an example. Maybe going on a security consideration. So at the end of each end check, of course, we have both endpoints are assured that they have securely compute the same session key and are securely authenticate. The combination of a game and the signature also simplify the authentication delay and increase the session key security in case where, for example, a participant becomes compromised in a post-compromised security situation, for example. As for the traditional edoc, we have forward secrecy, downgaret protection and transcript ash banding. One point, I will be, I will be, I will be. I would be, I would suggest it's about the identity protection property. Something that I read on the Cotien-Panchval analysis about the security property modeled. It's that it would not always fit correctly or would be able to adapt to this new post-comptu version of edoc and also in the draft that were presently previous by a project. previously by Lydia. So maybe we can suggest a more global approach based on PPI. And just for a comparison quickly about the byte analysis, I just added that, it's not in the draft, but it's to have it in mind that based on what was done of EDOC, I will take the same structure. We have this global comparison of the project. proposal we've done on the byte of each messages. So the size of its messages is really increased only by the post-comptuance which is considered not the message structure themselves. Thank you, Clement. Maybe a very quick question from John. We are already... Yeah, it's a high level question on both of this last draft. Now, we have. have a new charter, how do we progress with the PQC work? I think Lydia gave it quite nice overview of the different options. I think the key exchange, FMRA of key change, is quite straightforward, or when you have signature and PSK authentication. What needs more work seems to be the chem authentication. There's many solutions and many design options. How do you progress with that? Could we have some design team or some interim meeting? offline seems we should progress what we want to do yes yeah so that's a good point so we have a new charter which allows us to work on quantum resistant ad hoc methods so I would propose an interim meeting before Vienna that is specifically dedicated to quantum resistant that hoc that we can use as an opportunity to discuss exactly how do we proceed on this issue because we are on top of the hour and we are out of time today But what I do see is that as you were saying John key exchange seems to be straightforward we have an individual draft on that so it would make sense to to progress this fast and then we need to decide what exactly gets standardized in terms of chem-based authentication for ad hoc so I propose that we schedule a meeting before Vienna so midway between now and Vienna so sometime in May and we discussed these issues further there do we have any any other opinions on the subject the queue is locked so I will unlock it in case somebody wants to comment so I hear no opinions so I would take that as that as if we we agree on the proposed way forward with the interim meeting in parallel to that I would propose to form a design team meeting of on quantum resistant ad hoc and perhaps we can start with that immediately and have the the presentations of the design team in the interim meeting in May such that we use the time wisely between now and May between now and the interim meeting in order to progress with these issues and upon consensus in the working group on what exactly needs to be standardized. Does that work for everyone? Yes, for me. Okay, so we are three minutes late. So we had one more agenda item that is Meiling's draft, but I don't see her in the room and we are late anyway, so we can perhaps take this presentation either for Vienna or for the interim, depending on the interest of the audience. the audience. We will, as chairs, we will consult on that and we'll come back to the working group. So I would like to thank everyone for attending the today's meeting and for the productive discussions. So there are several action items. I believe they are captured in the minutes and we will be publishing these minutes and the recording will be published on the list following the meeting. Thank you all. Thank you all. See you soon. Thank you, Melissa. Final note, I would just like to thank Paul for serving S.D.D.D. in his two terms. And to welcome, to welcome, Christian. So Paul, thank you very much and Christian, welcome. Thank you.