Thank you. okay by my clock it's time to begin so we have lots of presentations that are in the if time allows bucket so we need to start on time so next slide Luigi note well please make sure that you're aware of everything you agreed to when you registered for this meeting treat each other well it's okay to disagree with somebody's idea but it's not okay to attack the person and please make sure you let us know if there's any intellectual property rights associated with any of the work that we discussed today next slide in the room please use the on-site tool you know if obviously remote people need to use the the full Medico Welcome, Kirsten. I understand you're taking minutes. Thank you. This slide has the links from all of the things, the agenda and the slides and the note pad and the chat room and the audio stream and the two full and on-site links for the Medico. Next slide. So we've gotten a lot done since we were last together. The first is that we got an updated charter approved by the AISG. We submitted manifest numbers to the ISG for publication. We've got three documents that are ready for working group last call. The two ASPA documents and then RFC 8210 BIS. Those are, which was updated to align with those ASPA documents. We're hopefully going to get that wrapped up this month even ready for the ISG. The SIDEROPS publication server BCP, the new re-driven, the most recent revision, addressed comments that were raised during the the previous working group last call and it's ready to go to the ISG. We adopted Yob's document about constraining RPTI trust anchors and the working group last call on avoiding RPCI state and BGP passed. We're waiting on the Shepherd right up in order to send that to the ISG. Next. So we have a lot of items here to go through the agenda. The next slide has ones that we hope we'll have time for. Is there any agenda bashes before we begin? So the one thing we told the folks who are on the we told the folks who are on the overflow items is we asked them to provide slides so that they would at least be part of the proceedings. Not all of them did send slides, so the ones that did will be in the proceedings. I think that's the last of our slides, right? Okay, first speaker. Testing one, two, three. Yes, this seems to work. Nice. Hi, everyone. Good afternoon. My name is Job Snyders. And in this presentation, I want to share with you a project that makes me very, very, very excited because it is saving me a lot of money and will enable this working group to really do enhanced research into the RPKI. So a little bit of backgrounds. In my spare time, I run a project called RPKI views.org. And this is a project that is modeled after route views.org. And the goal simply is a project that is modeled after route views.org. And the goal simply is simply is to archive all the world's RPQI data. If you publish a ROA or a CRL, even if it is just for a few seconds, I will find it. And I will store it forever. In route views, they make BGP data available in the MRT format. And in RPKI views, I take a different approach, and that approach is what I will explain in this presentation. in this presentation. There's a big difference with route views. With BGP, there is basically an infinite amount of BGP data, because every eBGP router has its own unique perspective of the global internet routing table. So let's assume there is, say, half a million or maybe a million EBGP routers. That's a lot of data. So a project like route views can not not really ever capture all the data. On the other hand, since the RPKI is not a routing protocol, we in theory should be able to capture all the products of CA issues and in theory should be possible to store the entire RPTI. It is a finite amount of data. There's not many other projects. projects that try to accomplish the same. RipeNCC, their FTP server, takes a snapshot after RPTI on a daily basis around midnight. That's very cool. But it means that all the changes and fluctuations that happen during the day are not visible. So as far as I know, RPTI views is really unique in its attempt to capture simply everything instead of sampling. Now, the first generation of RPQI views, let's call it Gen 1, in essence the process was, I run the validator process, it connects to all the repositories, it slurps in the data, it validates the data, and it stores the validated data in the cache directory. Then, using a simple tar command, we create a tarball, with the contents of that cache directory. And you can see an example listing where in 2020, the cache directory and GZPT forum was 120 megabytes, but towards the end of 2025, a single snapshot was close to 500 megabytes. So as the years went by and the RPI was growing in size, so were the sizes of the snapshot. of the snapshots. Looking at a single collector for the first few months of 2026, you can see that January, this approach consumed 1.6 terabytes. And in February, which is a little bit of a shorter month, it was 1.5. Now, RPTI views is a multi-node initiative. It is a multi-perspective approach to capturing all the data. And my free notes that used a Gen 1 approach collectively in 2026 captured, Beno, you're late, penalty point for you. Oh, okay. So in 2026, so far they captured 10 terabytes and the year is barely started. So in short, this is highly problematic because I cannot afford to store all the data. Now, how do we solve this? This is where I came up with the idea of RPQI spooling. Let's call it Gen 2 or Generation 2 of RPGI views. And the idea here is that I would like to publish as an informational RFC the storage approach of this project, so that future researchers and fellow participants in the working group have a reference, reference, a stable reference of how is this data organized, how to access it, and that should make collaboration easier. But when I wrote the first version of the draft, I copy-pasted from a previous draft, and I mistakenly did not change the intended status. So this is not standards track, this is just me documenting, this is what we do in this project, take it or leave it. You can think of RPi spool as a continuous log or a tape recorder that is continuously writing out all the new data it is observing as it happens. What is the RPCI spool approach? It is a cocktail of standardized tooling because I would like everybody to be able to use this format. this format, so nothing proprietary, this tooling that either exists in the POSIX environment or is standardized through the IETF process. So an RPKI spool, in essence, is a Z-standard compressed tarbo, and the members of the tarball are ITF standardized files. Every day starts with a so-called checkpoint. The idea of the checkpoint in combination with a log is that if you want to replay the log, you can start at the checkpoint and then you start playing the log. And if the checkpoint were, say, on a weekly basis or a monthly basis, it would mean that if you want to replay the lock, you may have to go further back in time and play, replay more of the log. So a daily checkpoint turned out to be a good balance. be a good balance between practical access to the data without having to replay lots of the log and the storage required to host the daily checkpoints. So the day starts, the day starts following the UTC time zone, and the nodes create a checkpoint. And then throughout the day, they store every new object that they discover. This is a change data account. a change data capture process. So let's look at a graph of some of the results. The green bar with the stripes is the total number of objects in a validated cache. I'm trying to capture valid data. If the data is not valid according to the validation rules that we have standardized, then I'm less interested in the data. So I don't want to host people's movies when they are. movies when they upload that into RPTI repositories. It has to be real valid RPTI data. So at this moment in time, oh, so this graph is the last 40 days. At this point in time, validated cache is around 500,000 objects. And then the green solid bar represents the number of objects that changed throughout that day. And a trick here is that I capture throughout the day all the data. And then when the day is finished, a compactization process is kicked off, which means that all yesterday's data is normalized, deduplicated, and compressed. And that is what you see in these graphs. So about 180,000 objects out of the 500,000 objects change every day. And the purple line is the number of the number of CCRs that I was able to capture on a particular day. So think of this as the number of photos that were captured by the validators around the world. Then in the lower graph, the yellow bar, you see the size of the compressed archive for that particular day. So you can see that every day the resulting RPQI school file is roughly 1 gigabyte. And storing 1 gigabyte of data per day is affordable for me. Then finally, there is a green line in the lower graph, and that is the compression ratio. And the approach taken yields a compression ratio of around 98 to 99%. So keep that in mind, if you unpack the archived files, they become quite large. large because I was able to capture the data in a very, very efficient manner. So how does it work at this moment? There's roughly 12 notes at this point in time, but as time goes by, I expect some of the notes to disappear because the sponsor is maybe no longer interested or able to host a node, or maybe throughout time, some notes are added. But as of today, it's 12 notes. Some of the gatherers use first RDP, and if that didn't work, then fall back to R-Sync. Some of the gatherers only use R-Sync. Some of the gatherers have no memory of previous RDP states. So they only use RRDP snapshots instead of RRDP deltas. Some have access to V4, IP4 and IPV6, some don't. And it's globally distributed. There's a note in Brisbane, Bangalore, Amsterdam, Zurich, and I hope that as time goes by, we can add more geographic diversity. All the data these nodes are collecting is losslessly aggregated and compressed. Because the guiding principle here is to store the raw data and allow researchers to reconstruct the raw input. And this is important because I don't know future use cases for the research. So if I would compress the data or aggregate it in a way that I remove some metadata, we will undoubtedly become to regret it years from now when we discover that we were interested in data that was tossed out. So this is why I really focus on capturing raw data and presenting that to the researchers. Now, what these files are look like. As I mentioned, every day starts with the checkpoint. The checkpoint is called the initial state or in its state. That one is marked with the midnight time stamp. And then as the day progresses, more and more data is collected, the data that changes throughout the day, the CCR files that are captured on that particular day, and those go into the RPi spool file. So this means that every day is represented by two files, the initial state and the change throughout the day. And if you want to see the hierarchy yourself, then copy paste the R sync at the bottom of the screen. If we look inside, I'm sorry, this slide got morphed a little bit. So on the left side of the screen, the purple circle was supposed to be a little bit more to the left. You see the node identifier. So on the left side you see AMS 1, AMS3, BLR 1, BLR 1, BLR 2. These are the identifiers so that if you want to track or understand the history of a particular individual instance, that you, you, there's a consistency. And then what follows is the full FQDN and path and file. And then what follows is the full FQDN and path and file name of the signed objects. Now, by sorting them, not by the top level directory, which would be the node identifier, but sorting the files, the members of the tar file by FQDM and then PAF to the signed object, I really set up Z standard for success. So all the data that is very similar, or maybe even equivalent, is placed close to each other in the tar file. And this allows Z standard to, in effect, store a single copy of a signed object, even if multiple nodes observed that one particular signed object. Then let's delve through the contents of an RPTI spool file. All the timestamps in the TAR file are not the timestamps of the TAR file are not the timestamps of discovery but they are the time stamps that are internal to the signed object using the RFC 9589 logic, the CMS signing time optimization trick that we worked on a while back. So this is interesting because if we sort by time, it happens to be that data that is related to each other. And I think, you know, a manifest is always issued together with a CRO, the CRL and there will be data redundancy between the CRL and the manifest because they both will contain the same authority key identifier as an example. So by placing data that is similar to each other, close to each other in the TAR file, C standards can optimally compress the data and this is achieved by sorting the files according to their internal time step. The first file in the static directory, that is a signed object. So it could be a manifest, a CRL, a CA certificate, something that came from a publication point. And the file name itself is the SHA-256 hash of the contents of the object. So this allows somebody that is parsing an RPI spool file to verify the integrity of the file simply by matching whether the calculated SHA-256 is the same as the file name. the file name. This also means, and this is how I do the deduplication, because every object is stored by its hash as file name, and this is a very cheap way to deduplicate the same data. Here is a CCR file. The first portion is the year, month, day, and then a timestamp. when exactly it was produced, the node identifier followed by the CCR file name extension. Quick reminder, CCRs are a way to capture what goes into the validation process and what comes out of the validation process. And you take a photo of both aspects at the same time. So a CCR contains a list of the hashes of the manifest that went into the validation process. process. And with that, you can reconstruct the exact state of the repository because the manifest objects themselves, again, contain hashes of the signed objects that they reference. So in essence, that's like a miniature Merkel tree. And a CCR contains like the ROA payload state, which is the data that an RTR server would send to the BGP router. So you have the input, like the physical shape of the input in the form of the form of the of lists of hashes and the output as in what would be sent in an RFC 8210 compliance server. At IETF 124, I gave a brilliant presentation. It is super fun to watch and I recommend all of you to click the link and enjoy that. Then there are some other files available in the RPTIS pool, a log file, which is standard out and standard error as captured of the validation process. This is not standardized, but it is useful for debugging the process if need be, but that would be by hand. And it contains an open metrics file on the metrics in terms of how long it took to synchronize various repositories, whether a repository was synchronized through RDP or RRSync. And these statistics can be used to understand how how the synchronization process was for that particular RP at that particular moment in time. One minute and a half. Thank you. Then you can use RPKI clients, an open source package, with the dash F feature, and you can point it at one of the files that is in the RPTI Spore Archive, and it will decode it into JSON, which is is then something that is useful for most researchers. So the idea is that people themselves take an RPCI spool and then convert the data into a format that is suitable for their research. So that could be parquet files or Postgres or MySQL or whatever you want to use. So in summary, every RPQI spool contains yesterday's data. And this is because using a one-day's data. Using a one-day buffer makes for optimal compression windows, and that's how I achieve the cheap storage. Data is deduplicated, and this is a wall of text. So cool things I've done. I've discovered backdating CAs, I've discovered misissuances, reappearing objects that should have been revoked, but were not, lack of HTTP compression, RDP inconsistencies, terms of publication, I am debugging the RPTI for everyone using this mechanism. And it's all public data, so you can do this too. Now, final remark, looking at a RPKI spool data point that was just fun to capture, I plotted the times of the ROAS on the RPTI server from Ripe NCC. And you can see a pattern that apparently people do not like to change their ROAS on the weekend. I didn't know. So there's lots and lots of cool stuff hiding in these archives about the behavior of the CAs. And yeah, we should, we should analyze that and take advantage. And no time for question. Let me remind to everybody when you ask this cloud, is including the Q&A. So if you want live feedback, please take this into account. Okay. Thank you, Job. map planner to give the latest update of the draft of Moore, MOA, a profile for mapping origin authorization. So in this presentation, meaning you have to use our implementations and field trail. So first, I give you a review of MOA. more is an IPCI object for the verification, address mapping announcement in IPVC's only networks. So it goes to ensure that IPBC's data is transmitted to the correct egress PE. This draft was adopted by set-offs working October 2024 and that current were in 2003. So as mentioned, that is more in many focus on the three. scenario IPVs only networks. So for IPV4 service delivery, IPVC is only multiple multi-domain backbones. IPVC mapping prefix I configured at each PEPD devices to ensure to any find the location of each IPV4 networks. IPVC mapping prefix is considered as a mapping arranging of each given IPV4 address block. So this is easily to be understood. Here is there some draft which give the extensions about how to carry the mapping information by MPBGP protocols for announcing the IPVs, the mapping relation from the IGRE to INCREs PE. So this can give the direction of IPB4 service delivery in IPB6-only network. This is a bar problem. So in this is a bar problem. So in this case, is a validity of transmitting IPF service data in IPB system-only and network relies on the authenticity of the IP mapping origin, IPV4, address block. If attacker maps IPV for address block using a fake IPVC's mapping prefix, IPV4 service data will be rotated through the attacker controlled route and reach to a wrong egress PE. So which means that the routing system is a routing system is deceived, which will result in a situation of IPV4 prefix hijacking. So we define more. More is a critical graphic, a signature object that unknown address holders to authorize IPV6 mapping prefix for for IPV4 prefix mapping. Of course, we also needed the validation precise. So router validated IPVs IPV6 to IPV4 mapping announcements using more objects reject and authorize the ones and prevent high pv4 address prefix hijacking. This shows a this is about the content time before Moore. So more is a IPCAP based digit objects which is the same to rule and manifest. All relay party using more to validate a mapping announcement, the RELPA party must perform all the project checks specifically in FCC-488, as well as additional more specific valid digit step. So as mentioned, we have implemented more system in our lab. It has the following function. First, it has a capability to, right now the system can issue more additional standard objects on the sea side. And the second one is that we can publish more digits and objects via the RDP on the C side. And so the system also can be capable to synchronize and validate more certificate on the RP site. So it's an end-to-end system. Next time, the more proper data units for the RPK-RP prototype will be defined in another document. which is not a scope, this document, but we think it is also necessary to deploy. And we also collaborate with the route vendor to implement support for more. We will deploy the or production network and more will undergo demonstration testing and verification. So we think that this draft is stable. So we apply for maybe working for last call. Is it? Question or comments? I have a comment, actually, on the last slide, if you go back one. As you know, by the new charter we need implementation to publish documents. And it seems that you lack one piece of this technology, which is the PDU. Maybe for going last call would be better to have the PDU and move both of them together at some point when we have the implementation report, which is lacking in the current document, right? Okay. You mean that we need the PDO related documents, right? Yeah, you are promising a new document, right? Okay, that's, that's right. Yeah, and the implementation report. And PDU implemented report, the whole implement? Even for this document. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We need implementations, right, publish. Okay, I see. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, there is a question on the . DEMA. Yeah, this is DEMA from DDS as a co-author of this draft. I would like to solicit comments from this working group that since we have got MOA proposal, maybe in the coming future, there is increasing number of RPK sign objects to take advantage of the to publish their data. Shall we consider a new magazine for RP to handle with the manifest? Because for many, for some parts of the Reliant Party, they don't care about both or geos or something like that. I think we should consider the incremental deployment things. Yeah. Joe Snyder's BSD. The manifest is one of the most complicated features that we have in the RPQI protocols. And I do sympathize with increasing efficiency and, you know, I do sympathize, but I would strongly recommend against changing the manifest structure because we finally have industry-wide consensus on what it does, how it works, how to implement it safely. And it's really one of the more complicated pieces of code in our piece. So I will probably on principle object to changing anything in that corner of our technology stack. Because, yeah. to you up please. So thank you. Let's go to the next. the Eric Synchronization Protocol. And in this update, I'll share with you a quick reminder of what the Eric Synchronization Protocol project is about. What changed since the last ITF meeting, where we are with implementation status, and where people maybe can latch on and join the project, and what the next steps will be. So Eric Synchronization is. a mechanism to populate the cache of the RPQI validators in an efficient matter. It is based on HTTP, HTTPS, because that's, you know, how the Internet works these days. So we didn't create a bespoke new TCP-based protocol. We're using existing HTTP semantics. It uses the concept of Merkel trees. We're also known as hash trees to efficiently figure out what is the difference between my local state and the remote state between the last time we synchronized and now. And with Merkel trees, you can very, very cheaply figure out, did something change? And then if the answer is yes, you can very quickly zoom in on what exactly changed. And then you fetch only the difference. And this is a great optimally. in comparison with R Sync, where figuring out, did anything change, is a very expensive component of the synchronization process. And this is also more efficient than RRDP, because in RDP, the main, the costly aspect of RRDP is that it is full history replication. So even if states have been overtaken by events, the RP must download the full history if it uses RADP. And this, this is costly. And in the Eric Protocol, you can skip over the parts of the history that are no longer relevant because of the Merkel tree structure. Eric synchronization, the messages that are the Merkel tree, use ASN1 or DIR encoding. This is because we use ASN1 and DER in all our activities. And this way, we don't need to ask the implementers to learn a new technology, for instance, Seabor or ProtoBuff, and link in additional libraries to interact with that new technology. A key principle of Eric synchronization is that it is a content addressable storage system. So all the fetching happens based on the hash of the object, not on the name of the object, because the name of objects can be recycled throughout different versions of the object. Everything is addressed by SHA-256 hash. And Eric synchronization, the data structures that are exchanged. It's all static data from the producer side. is really optimized for concurrent writers and concurrent readers. So you can do all the work on both sides in parallel. And this is possible because it follows the data consistency model of last write wins. And this, in turn, is anchored on the manifest numbers that are monotonically increasing. Content distribution happens through a thing called relays. And that means that the clients are no longer fetching straight from the origin. Because we've learned in the last few years that not all origins are dimensioned appropriately for the demand that exists in the internet routing system to synchronize. So this means that if you are a smaller publication point with less resources, that using the Eric technology, if you publish new information, it gets picked up and it will distribute through a content delivery network that exists magically, so to speak. Changes we made since the last meeting. Previously, the way to synchronize was using the Merkel tree. And this implies hundreds, maybe thousands of HTTP requests. And this is fantastic if you are are mostly synchronized. But if you have a cold cache, if the RP has started and has no prior history whatsoever, then it is a little bit costly to make that many requests. So we added a feature that is somewhat analogous to RDP snapshots, where with a single HTTP request, you fetch all the data. But instead of Base 64 encoding the data and sticking it in an XML Enfor, In the Eric protocol, the snapshot is purely concatenated their objects. So this command that finds all the files, cats them together, and then runs it through G-ZIP, is literally a valid implementation of generating Eric snapshots. Snapshots don't need to be produced in lockstep with changes. It is asynchronous. The idea is that you download a snapshot, and then you perform tree synchronization. So the snapshot is only intended to prepopulate your cache, and actual synchronization happens with the Merkel trees. Now, you can see that we have GZIP in the middle, because we've come to discover that in in many deployments, HTTP compression is not reliably available. This is because large CDNs assume that large objects already are compressed. That is basically the running theory. We found that not all load balancer solutions and CDNs that people use support HTTP compression for larger objects. So for instance, on Amazon Cloudfront, if the object is larger than 10 megabytes, it will not be compressed at the HTTP layer. And of course, the Eric snapshots often are larger than 10 megabytes. So we made compression an integral part of the protocol, which means that it's always enabled, that we always take advantage, but it also means that we're stuck with GZIP for another 30 years. That's fine because we love GZIP and it works on all platforms, all CPU architectures, all operating systems. And it's pretty good bank. for buckets like a 50% reduction. So compressed snapshots. That's what we're doing. Then we came up with another interesting feature to reduce the number of individual HTTP requests that a client needs to make to synchronize. And here the ideas that groups of objects are bundled into time buckets, so to speak. So the relay discovers new objects and puts those objects in a tail queue that is trimmed based on the time. And that means that it's very cheap to request the relay. What are all the objects that you discovered in the last five minutes? Now, this is about discovery time, not about signing time. Because an object might have been delayed somewhere in the pipeline. Or, so it's really the discovery time. The advantage of this is it is a speculative pre-fetch. The disadvantage is that it's a little bit complicated to reason about. And you end up because it's speculative pre-fetching, there might be waste in that data is needlessly re-transfered because the client already had the data from, say, an other relay. So I am marking this as an experiment. this as an experimental feature. We'll do implementation work. We'll do measurements and we'll figure out like, is this actually something we like? Is the operational complexity worth keeping this feature? Maybe yes, maybe no. As this draft matures, we'll see. So maybe this will be removed in the future. Maybe no. There's a number of publicly accessible Eric relays. Here are the URIs. So if you're doing implementation work, you can use these relays. All of them are compliant with the specification as published. So if you find a bug, it is definitely your client-side software, not my servers. I lie. You can also access it through Tor. This is just to demonstrate that the who operates the relay is irrelevant. This is signed data that is transferring through unauthenticated channels and whether it comes from one relay or another relay or through the Tor network, it doesn't matter. It's signed data and you validate it in your clients. I have super cool news. Tom Harrison, this handsome young man with the same haircut as me in the same glasses, made a implementation of the Eric Protocol. And he worked on both clients and server implementation. It is open source and we are now experimenting with how does this behave? Does the clients, are the logic flows what they should be? Do we need to make changes in the draft or in the code? But it's really nice that we are now at the point where there's multiple implementations by multiple people and we can iteratively figure out what is it that we need in the specification to help future implementation to help future implementers. Next steps. The draft needs work in terms of readability. I consider this really rough notes. So I think it contains all the normative terms you need to make an implementation, but it's maybe not the easiest document to digest at this point in time. So it is work in progress. Another thing, that I would like to add is a method to download the trust anchor certificates because right now your trust anchor certificate is referenced in the towel. That means you need to connect to the origin of the TA. And it might be nice to have copies of the TA certificates on relays available. That means we need to standardize how you can discover that trust anchor certificates and it puts an emphasis on a working group document, the TA tiebreaker, because it could be that the relay is presenting you with an older version of a TA certificate and that means that the client needs to verify like, okay, the relay is proposing a certificate, but is it actually something I want to use? Other documentation is maybe explaining the algorithm rhythmic differences between R Sync and RDP and RADP and Eric so that people better understand why is Eric a very different approach and what are, you know, what can we expect from this protocol. And other work is maybe something in the realm of monitoring so that we can, can start inspecting the health of a relay that we come up with tools. How do we want to debug relays in a way that is easy, safe, and we can start inspecting the health of a relay that we come up with tools. easy, safe, and robust. Next steps in terms of software. I'm working on a client's implementation in C. Tom will continue working on his pearl implementation. Ripe NCC is planning to do an implementation in Rust. I saw on GitHub some activity in the RPKI Prover project, a Haskell implementation, and maybe you. you. Now is a great time to do implementation work because other people are also doing implementation work and that means that there is a great virtual space, so to speak, to ask questions like, hey, how are you guys solving this and this problem? Do you have any recommendations on that particular aspect? And we can exchange knowledge with each other how to create robust and efficient implementations. I am available to help you. to help you implement the Eric protocol. I don't care what language you implemented in, because I will help you on a conceptual level. Your questions will help make the internet draft better, and the answers I give you will help make your software better. So it's win-win. And as we develop more software, we're going to test is the software and the protocol living up to the promises. Is it truly more efficient than R Sync and RDP? Does it consume less bandwidth, less CPU cycles, does it overcome network partitions, etc? So this is data-driven protocol development. I don't know if Eric is something we actually want in the production environment in, say, a few years from now, but we will know by testing and measuring. I think that, you know, we have time for like one compliments or remark or question. You have to be quick. You have to be quick. All right. Please email me or the offer group if you have any questions. Thank you for your time. and good evening everyone. This is Yishnu, H.P. Networking. On behalf of my authors, I'm going to walk you through the changes that we have for the Yang data model for RPKI. There we go. Okay. So this draft ideally talks about two Yang models, primarily the RPK-R-T-R-Yang, which deals with the session-specific parameters. and like how we as to configure and manage the RPKRTR protocol on the device. And the second Yang model talks about the RPK table, like as to how we manage the RAE records on our router. So in this version of the draft, like we do have changes while addressing comments from the reviewers in the RPK table, but there's no substantial change suggested for the RPKRTRTR Yank model. Thanks to Job for taking a look at the draft, reviewing, and providing the valuable comments. We acknowledged and implemented the comments in this particular version. Ideally, like it was suggested to have some nomenclative changes with respect to the ROA terminology, and it was changed to VRPs for ASPA table, ROTA key table, and the VRP tables. Along with that, like with the adoption of RPCCCADC at draft, we were suggested to like include the CCR hashing mechanism for all the three tables for VRP, ASP, and ROTK tables. So like the CCR hashing is not just going to help the external monitoring tool to understand or get known of the number of counts of the ROAs that has been synced between the client and the server, but also have in detail knowledge about the contents of the ROAs being intact or not. So these were the major two, like, review comments that we received on this draft, thanks to Job again. And we have implemented in this version. Okay, giving a brief on what we have in the models. So in the pictorial description, as you see, like RPKRTR Yang, like it consists of the session-specific parameters. So connectivity parameters, authentication, counters, statistics, they have been included. in the model. And along with that, like, the majority, like, the changes that has been brought into, like, in this version is the RPK-R-R-T-R-T-A-T-T-A-Table. As mentioned, the terminology or the nomenclative changes from ROAS to VRP has been addressed, and also the inclusion of the CCR payload hash mechanism has been included in all the three tables. So, For the three tables that we have, along with the total records added, deleted for IPV4V6, like entries we have included, the CCR hash for them, adhering to the adopted draft of the RPi-CCR. Yeah, so basically, like, after a couple of reviews and cycles on this particular draft, we would be asking for a young doctor review or maybe last call and we are open to comments and improvements on the draft. I'll open it for the forum for any queries, comments. That's all. Thank you. I'm struggling to log into the fix. My apologies for not joining you properly. Just a quick remark about CCR. I consider the CCR draft to be stable. I have absolutely no intentions of changing the data structure, not yet asking for last call because we're waiting for an additional implementation. But just as a signal to the group, like I think CCR. in principle is finished. You are using CCR as a building block. That's fantastic. That's what it was intended for. So yeah, if your draft is ready, that's nice. I think CCR is also almost ready. This means you can depend on this. So thank you. Thanks, thanks, you know. Like, can we go for the young doc review for this? As per like Rask? So just a quick comment about a young doctor review, definitely we can ask an early review as soon as next week. As well, the last call, as far as I see, the draft is missing the implementation reports. So this must be included at some point before going for the last goal. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, thanks. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Liby Niu from Zhong Guantan Laboratory. Today I will introduce a new draft called IPKIR-DP data file retention policy. Also, the key idea is that the key idea is that. that we, in this document, we propose an adaptive data file retention policy. The key insight is that we can only, maybe the servers can only maintain the data files that will be used by the active relying parties. So it has several benefits. It can adapt, it can adapt to their actual client assess patterns and help reduce the storage requirements for the RDP servers, and it can help improve their performance for processing the notification files. And this is one way to reduce the size of notification files, as suggested in the section 7.5 of the publication server BCP document. And it can maintain the backward compatibility with existing RRDP clients. So to achieve the idea, we designed three key components, including the client tracking mechanism, minimum server number determination method, and the data file proving algorithm. So for existing data file retention policies, the section 3.3.2, IC 8182, mandates that the total size of the data files in the notification, file maintained by the server cannot exceed the size of snapshot file, but it is free to further limit the number of daughters. So two common methods are used. They are count-based retention policy and time-based retention policy. The count-based retention policy maintains a fixed number of most recent data files, such as the last 500 data files. And the time-based retention policy suggests to key the data files for a specified recent time period. So, but they all have their problems. So they all didn't consider their client assessing patterns. They may have inefficient source storage you'll use, especially we can predict the size of their IPKI objects will increase along with the number increase of the number increasement of existing objects. and the addition of mono-proposed IPKR objects. Also, the count-based retention policy may discuss the data files that are still needed by their active clients, and it cannot adapt to the changing repository update frequencies. The time base of one also has the same problem. So two tracks, their So we propose their client tracking mechanism to track the serial numbers accessible by their active clients with the structure as shown in these slides, which recalls the client ID, serial number, and the last access time. We can use the minimum serial number determination method to determine the minimum serial number access, access by these active clients. So then for the data files whose serial numbers are smaller than the minimum one, we can safely delete the older data files from the repositories. So, but the client tracking mechanism may raise some priority concerns. So we consider to take some steps to protect the client process. protect the client priority. The first type of strategy is to use an anonymization strategy. For example, we can use the anonymize identifiers instead of storing the actual IP addresses. And we can only store the minimum information needed for track the client's information and delay to the tracking data for the clients that have not been for a configurable period. So in sum, this document proposed a adaptive data file retention policy, and by tracking the minimum serial number accessed by the active clients, a repository can safely delete all the data files that are no longer needed by them, while ensuring that all clients can perform incremental updates. For the next steps, next steps. We seek feedback and comments from all of you and the collaborations are very welcome. We are also working on the simulation work codes of different policies to quantify the benefits. Thank you. Any comments? Anyone has a comment? Job managed to master Mitiko. I am concerned about the complexity versus the cost of storage. If you look at the largest RDP repositories, they are a few hundred megabytes. The deltas for the last few hours is tens of megabytes. So linking the client access pattern into a retention policy on the serving site for data that is considered static and super cheap to host seems an unwelcome complication in the ecosystem. And then secondly, the algorithm to figure out which of the pieces can be deleted, I believe that algorithms like these tend to like bottom out because there are always stragglers or maybe AI bots or something touching the HTTP resources. that suggests that there is an interest in the file and then the algorithm would end up with the maximum retention time instead of saving a few megabytes. So I don't think that this type of algorithm achieves, in practice, any savings. I think you end up with a account-based or time-based variants in essence. And the complexity of linking the web server locks to the retention policy, it should not be underestimated. Because for instance, I don't want to speak for RIPNCC, but I know they have any cast at the RDP endpoint through multiple cloud providers. So that means that you need to aggregate the logs in a very fast way from multiple vendors and then make decisions based on that. And I don't think anybody is interested to do that. So this mechanism, if the web server and the RDP production are on the same machine, it may be sort of feasible. But the moment this is a distributed mechanism, then it becomes complicated. And even keeping log files is like more expensive than the disk savings that the RDP approach might achieve. So I appreciate the thinking that went into this proposal, but I have a number of concerns where I think the practical applicability to the ecosystem might not be worth it from a complexity perspective. So thank you for your time. Thank you for the comments from the implementation view. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. No one has. Thank you. Hello, everyone. I'm Jeff Haas. Bob Beck will be co-presenting with me, and Ying Shen Chu is also one of our authors. So today we're going to be talking about TLS authentication for BGP. And I will get the right slide. So motivation. Clearly people in this room know something about BGP. Pretty much, one of the headaches we have is that BGP runs over TCP, and that means that what do you do about security there? And in IETF, we handwave a lot of security for TCP-based protocols by saying we're going to use IPSEC. You know, that doesn't happen because IPSEC is no painful in many cases. BGP ended up adding on TCP AO and previously MD5 to do Intech. to do integrity. Authentication is sort of a property we get incidentally through pre-shared keys there. There's a bunch of proposals running around right now that include running DGP on things like Quick. We're not going to talk about these here. It did actually inspire a lot of other work in other areas. I believe there's actually one here for doing RPCI router over Quick. But important detail here is that Quick is just a funny form of TLS. And that means we get a TLS handshake to get a TLS started. TLS uses certificates. And pretty much everybody knows familiar that TLS does actually use these certificates for WebPKI. And that WebPQI is not what we're doing here. This is an important detail. What we're talking about today is developing a PQI for BGP. This is all really about doing the TLS handshake for BGP protocols over TLS mechanisms. That's it. here. Well, part of the headache we have is this is sort of a strange piece of work that goes across several different areas. We're here to socialize this around the security people. We're trying to figure out exactly how this dispatch is. It's probably not TLS. IDR, well, it's sort of a BGP thing, but this is really about the PKI. SideRops. Well, SiderOps has a lot of expertise about certificate certificates. This work is very hybrid. It's somewhere between security and routing. We are chatting with both of the SEC and routing ADs, and we'll try to figure out exactly what we do about this. So, the issue is, you know, for operations. BGP obviously runs on an AS number, and that's, you know, what we use to represent the network of the protocol. And BGP typically is manually provisioned between routers. Obviously, auto discovery can be happening as well, but, you know, mostly this is provisioned. And our state is basically per neighbor. So at a high level, what this ends up looking like is every BGP session will have a certificate for a session. Each certificate would have the AS and I optionally IP addresses in it. And these things should be provisionable on demand by any AS that's using these for appear. And they could be trusted either directly via via the intermediate that created them or via the issue of that intermediate. Next slide. I have it. You have the control. I'm attempting. There we go. Certificate lifetimes. We want to make sure in this that we do not end up with certificates, certificate revocation issues. And as such, we're looking at a PGI that has a very short-lived certificate lifetime for the individual session certificates and a longer lived lifetime for the AS that issues them so that we avoid problematic CRL issues. Next slide. Oh, I still remember. BGP today has effectively a notion that if we introduce each other before appearing, we've decided to share a common shared secret and we go ahead from that point. This doesn't change that much here in some situations, but the desired model here is to establish introducers for the AS intermediate. The ideal introducer is just a mutually trusted third-party CA, and the third-party CA can decide to authenticate someone as controlling an AS to issue one of these intermediates by possession of a key that's already present in the RPA as proof of the AS control. To emphasize, we are not trying to put RPCI certificates in here directly, and we are not trying to reuse keying material from our PGI. At this point, the introducer could just be used as a trust anchor itself, or once it's validated, if you don't wish to continue to trust the introducer, the AS intermediates could be trusted directory by a directly, this is known as intermediate division. Continuing on. What does it look like in a certificate? We define a new OID. to be a SAN name for an AS identifier. We use the existing OID for San IP address. And that's it. It just specifies what should be in the certificate to identify the important parts for BGP. And what does it look like with a validation procedure? With two routers connect to each other with ASX and IP address 1, ASY, IP address 2. If they each trust each other's the AS intermediates during the TLS handshake, you validate that the session certificate is verified. The remote AS number is checked along with the remote IP and that's it. It's just about the handshake. Back to Jeff. So our next steps, we do have to figure out where we're going to actually home this stuff. We will be presenting this in SAG as well. Ideally, we do this without starting a new working group. You know, this is in the grand scheme of things, an incredibly small thing. The trouble is, you know, this incredibly small thing has some places where there will be some operational niceness if you do things like something like an Acme-like mechanism as an example for the end entities. And the gotchas, the minute you start doing certificate or BGP anything, we create an opportunity for land grabs and, you know, this starts piling up, no, RFCs, no, just the manage this stuff. If that happens, well, that means that the proposal here for this very small piece of the thing is successful. We'll go from there. We also know that we're establishing some practices that other things that use TLS, quick being, you know, the popular thing at the moment, might be useful for other IETF control plane protocols. We do mention that in the back of the draft. That's not our primary goal here, but we expect that the practice will be potentially useful. That said, that's all for the presentation. Any questions? Nangangang. Hello, Nangong from Huawei. I asked a question. I wonder, what's the relationship of this document and the BGGP over quick work? Any relationship between there? You are absolutely correct. So one of the things that we intentionally did not put the BGP over a quick document at the time that we were working on is what do we actually do about their certificates that are being done? So this absolutely goes along with that piece of work, and it will go with any other work where we actually put BGP over anything else that looks like TLS. Okay, thank you. Yope. Oh, and to credit Yob Snyders, he did a preliminary review. We have some issues opened up with the GitHub, and we'll be doing that in version one. Thank you, Jeff. Job here. You said you want to avoid a new working group, but I've given this some thoughts when I was showering this morning and I, you know, there's not a great working group that is a fit for this new PQI, if new PQI is the direction that is chosen. To me, it would make a lot of sense to collect some interested experts from IDR, from SIDAR ups, from SAC, from LAMPS, from LAMS, from maybe even, and be like, hey, we want to work on a PGI and make a short-lived purpose-specific working group for this profile. Because none of the working groups are a great fit. Let's just make a short-lived working group and explore this work. And it's also a bit chips in the night. Yeah, that's my current intuition, but, you know, it's your project. Well, and your opinion certainly valid, and you spend a lot more time thinking about the landscape than a lot of people. And short-lived working group may make sense, being the chair of a supposedly short-lived working group that's been going on 20 years now, although sensitive about such things, and we will absolutely be making you as a recommended no co-chair. Okay, I see nobody else in the queue. It is only one person that should have queued up. with Mitiko. Can you set your name clearly? Hi, I'm Waiton from Data Tech. So you mentioned that you introduced a new certificate for assigning that. So have a thing about how about like a set-up? How about using an RSC for signing that certificate? Because the RSC can use to sign random object and can already can carry the ES numbers with the front of trans anchors. So I'm afraid I only caught half the question. Bob, did you hear the whole thing? No, I only got about half of it as well. I'm sorry. Sorry, it's cut out. Yeah, so maybe you can check whether you can use the RSC. Okay. If what you're asking is why are we reusing the keys from the RPCI, it is want to do that. Yeah, because in the RPCI, we have the RSC. Right. So why not using the RSC to sign it? Because we do not want to give the RSC as if you, I want to make it where you get your RSC certificate, you may now, in theory, also make BGP connections anywhere that are trusted. We do not want to turn the RPKI into a route of trust for BGP peering sessions. And we're over time and we'll take this to the list. You can continue. on the main English. Thank you very much. Yep. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Hello everyone. I'm Jia from Zhongwansoon Laboratory. And today, I will introduce our updates on this draft as-published AS pass verification for BGP export. And on behalf of all the authors, at IAT4-1-2, we firstly introduced this draft and presented the verification procedures. And at IATF-123, we presented version 2,2, we presented version 2. which contains the basic motivations and beneficial cases. And today we are presenting version 4. Since last meeting, we have had extensive and productive discussions on the main list and among all the authors. And we've also welcomed 3RAM and NAN as new co-authors. So in this version, we will address the comments from the community by clarifying how Igres Aspa work together with the OTC attribute and how to handle the complex BGP sessions, And we also introduce several optimization strategies to reduce the processing overhead. And also we are working on the version 5 to address several remaining opening opening issues, which I will discuss it later. And so before we dive into the new updates, let's do a quick recap. Traditionally, the ASPA-based ASPA verification is performed as an ingress. And our draft proposed to apply it as an egress right before an update is sent to a neighbor. And why do we need it? We have three main motivations. Firstly, it is crucial for partial deployment scenarios. Act as a safety night when the ingress routers are not yet upgraded, ensuring and no invalid rules are sent to EBGP peers. And secondly, it can prevent local AS misconfigurations. For example, For example, in AS Federation scenarios or doing road manipulations, just like our egress does for invalid origins. And certainly, it can detect ASPA registration errors earlier, such as provider AS are mistakenly omitted by some ASPAR records, which could otherwise lead to unexpected invalid results. And moving forward to version 4, Firstly, we'll add a new action 3.1 to clarify in the positioning of egress ASPA. Just as this diagram shows, there is a knowledge gap between the ingress router R1 and the egress router R2. R1 knows the exact pairing relationship with ESN from its local configurations. While R2 lacks this context and can rely solely on the ASPA record, which can be inaccurate. So because of this, this, the egress ASPA is designed to complement ingress ASPA verification. And its core value lies in the partial deployment scenarios. In our recent discussions, some SB operators share that they often have some legacy border routers that cannot support new technologies and will take a long time to replace. So this makes the partial deployment scenarios within an AS a very realistic and long-term scenarios. And furthermore, major SPs emphasize their goals to never send invalid rules to their EBGP neighbors. So it is crucial for egress aspart to act as a safety night in this interim period. And following up on that, since R2 lacks the context of the ingress, it is imperative that the ingress router R1 could attach the OTC attribute when receiving a route. receiving a route. So we've established a clear priority here that OTC comes first. Even if the ingrat routers R1 are not upgraded and not upgraded for ASPA, it should ideally upgrade it for OTC. And once the OTCC is deployed, its outcome cannot be overwritten by egress verification. And also we added a new section 3.2 to address a very practical operational concern. which is complex BGP sessions. In rural networks, relationships between two AS are not always strictly customer-to-provider, provider or peer-to-peer. Sometimes two AS maintain a complex relationship. So if such complex relationships can be segregated into multiple BGP sessions, with clear roles, the operators should split them and select appropriate algorithm for each session based on its peer relation type. However, if such complex relationship cannot be segregated and exists within a single BGP session, we provide two practical options. Option one is that the operators could apply algorithms on a per fixed basis. If it is not feasible, the operators could apply downstream pass algorithm by default in order to avoid false positives. And also, a common question we get is about the performance. If we perform ASPAR verification as an ingress, won't doing it at egress double the router's workload. So this new section 4 addresses this concern by proposing several optimization strategies. For example, for full routing table scenarios, routers could precise egress ASPA once centrally and push its outcomes to all reps out for all customer-facing interfaces. And finally, here are some opening issues we are still working on. The first is about the verification procedure, especially the prepared neighbor AS option. And just to recap, it means that when the egress router performed the verification, it prepared the next neighbor's AS to the AS pass before conduct this verification. And in our analysis before, this can enable earlier detection of local mix configurations and registrations and registration errors. And so we co-authors are actively discussing the trade-off between the security benefits and the potential computational overhead. And our current plan is to position this pretending optimization as an offline verification precise rather than an in-line requirement. This makes the most sense and is aligned with the version 23 as per ingrat strapped. And the second focus is about the optimizations. optimizations. We are also discussing how to reduce egress as per performance overhead while maintaining necessary security benefits. For example, we are planning to explore the partial verification optimizations, which means that the eGros routers could use some local signaling to send its outcome to the eGOS routers so that the egress routers could reuse known results. And certainly, we have done a lot of work on the restructuring and refuturing and refrauders. structuring and refining the draft itself. We are reorganizing the draft to improve its readability, and more importantly, we are detailing specific scenarios where the egress checks truly add value. Okay, to wrap up, we are actively preparing version 5, and here's some open issues to be finalized. So we humbly welcome your feedback and suggestions and technical inputs on this draft. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone is a comment or a question? Nobody in the queue. So, you're presenting also the next one here? Okay. Okay. Okay, thank you. And I'd also like to introduce a new draft to the working group, which is, which is RPCI-based validation with prioritized resource data. Okay, let's start with the problem statement. The real world routing options are very complex, with its incomplete our coverages and sometimes even inaccurate our registrations. So to cope with this, operators may use some heterogeneous local data, such as as AI inference or historical analysis with via slum. However, the current validation system is quite rigid. In wide results triggers the exact same action like dropping the roads, regardless of whether this outcome came from a highly trusted global ROA or a less trusted local supplement. The reality is the local register data or the AI inference data are not always accurate. If we blindly drop the roads based on, drop the rules based on them, we may risk false positives, or sometimes cutting off legitimate traffic. So this forces operators into a frustrating binary choice, either fully trust the supplement data and risk misjudgments, or completely ignore them and also lost its potential value. So our core idea to solve this is to introduce a priority level to introduce a priority level to every piece of validation data. For example, for APIs and ROA, it got priority 1 with representing high trust. And for an AI inferred policy, it got priority 2 with medium trust. And this fundamentally shifts the validation status from simple valid, invalid and unknown to granular status like invalid 2 or invalid 1. And now the validation results carries metadata data about its own credibility, which could allow the routers to fine turning the routing policies on this specific credibility level. Okay, let's look at a concrete use case. Imagine a router have two validation records. One is from the local global IPQI with priority one, and the other is from AI inference with priority two. And now the route A comes in, and it will be validated as invalidable one. as invalid 1 against the global RPi. So the operators will have high confidence of it is hijacked and can apply strict discussing policies. And when the route B comes in, and it is validated as invalid 2 by maybe AI inference data, the confidence is lower. And instead of just dropping late and maybe risk connectivity, the operators could apply a conservative policy like demoting his local preference or ensuring a warning. So this approach could enable a fun-grind risk-aware routing routing security policies. And here is a high-level framework to support this. Firstly, the relying party or cache server could aggregate data from different sources, assigns priority levels, and merges them based on a defined algorithm. And secondly, we can extend the RTI protocol to carry priority information within its PTOs to routers. And finally, the routers perform priority of wire BGP route validation, producing annotated results, and executes locally configured policies based on both the state and the credibility. And to make this work, we outline several protocol extension requirements in the draft. Firstly, the relying parties should be able to assign more data, and second, SLEARM format should be extended with the priority attribute. And as for the core RTIR extension, we provide two flexible implementation models. The first model is an integrated approach, which we can extend the RTIPTO with a new field to carry the priority, and it can be in a one-session model. And the second model is a segregated approach that we can use existing RTIPDAO existing RTR protocols and establishes multiple RTR sessions to different caches, each dedicated to a specific priority level. And finally, the routers must be updated to parse annotated validation states and to apply policies accordingly. And the key benefits of this approach is to forward. Firstly, it can provide enhanced operational flexibility. It moves route validation from a result. validation from a binary decision to a multi-level precise, operators can define fine-grined policies that match their actual risk tolerance. And secondly, we believe this can truly accelerate RPCI deployment. By lowering the barrier to entry, operators can supplement low-coverage RRKKK data with other local sources, without losing the ability to act decisively on high-confidence-invalued roads. And also here are some key feedbacks from the mailing list around our draft, and I want to share and respond to them. Firstly, Maria brought up a very practical point that some software companies like Bird have already doing this by allowing multiple RTR, multiple tables, and multiple RWA evaluations. And also, she advised against complicating the validation And actually, we are very glad and very encouraged to, from this feedback, that the operational need for this separation already exists in the world. And we strongly agree on keeping the base validation algorithm simple. And here is the second feedback from NIC regarding the protocol complexity. And yes, we strongly agree that modifying the RTR protocol is heavily This is why we propose a zero modification option in our section 4.2. By using a multi-session RTR approaches, we perfectly align with what bird already does. And the core takeaway here is that the router still need a way to differentiate the data confidence levels and to apply the policies accordingly. For example, dropping or just alerting. So we are very open to explore how to minimize the protocol changes. For example, the multi-session approaching or any other solutions. And certainly Willem pointed out that hard coding our specific priority contact to a protocol is to level. And we really appreciate this feedback. And involving this into a generic RTR tagging mechanism, maybe which is a very conceptually similar to BGP communities is a great idea. And with this pivot will not only solve our specific mixed trust data scenario, but also provides the broader community with a highly flexible tool to extensible routing policies. And we really want to hear about the opinions in this point, yes. And Rolf commented that the RPKI trust should be binary and based on the critical photography. And I want to clarify that we are not replacing cartography. But however, in the real-world deployment, especially in this early-stage deployment, data gaps exist and operators need supplementary data. And meanwhile, in the meantime, the SLARM already says a precedent for this. And also, our bridge actually increased the safety by explicitly tagging the AI info data or local register data as lower priority. We ensure that this data cannot cause aggressive actions like dropping the rods, which only the sign always can. And okay, that's all we want to share. And we proposed a flexible framework that introduces fine-green priority-based control to the IPK ecosystem. RPC ecosystem. And since this is a version zero draft, so we humbly seek feedback and support from the working group. And we especially welcome discussions on the protocol extension details. For example, the best approach is to extend RTR. And many special thanks to those who give us valuable suggestions and comments. Thank you. Anyone has questions or suggestion anything? Apparently not. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Really wish to discuss more on the main list. Okay, thank you. You surely can do this. Okay. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Minlindjia from Qinghua University, and today I'm going to present our work about a source address validation using source-arranging authorizations. We call it source. So here is an online on my today talk. A short recap and a short recap. introduced to the update since last presentation one year ago and then we explain how we revised drafts based on feedback and then future work. Let's start with a quick recap. SAV or source address validation is actually a very simple idea. We want to check if the source IP address of a packet belongs to its center. its center. In other words, we want to prevent IP spoofing. So why is this important? Because many network attacks, especially DDoS, rely on spoofing the source IP address because the attacker now don't want to be caught. If we can stop spoofing, many of these attacks can be significantly reduced. However, the problem becomes much harder in interdomain. in interdomain scenarios. First, only the source network knows the real forwarding path of a packet. Second, the best place to filter traffic is really large core networks. And most importantly, those core networks don't have the information they need, so they can't cooperate finally. So we end up with an information gap. The source address knows the truth. The big AS is in the best position to act, but they cannot effectively cooperate. So this is why traditional SAV solutions don't work well across domains. And yesterday I listened to Jeff Huston's talk. He mentioned that some internet problems are hard, not because they are technically difficult, but because they are economically misconduct. misaligned. The cost is borne by one party and while the benefits go to others. We believe this is exactly the case for traditional SAV. To address this, we propose a model called SAP, a source address protection service. This idea is to turn SAV into a service. There are two roles. Providers, first is the subscriber AI. This is a network that owns IP addresses and wants protection of its IP prefix. And it means to protect its IP prefix from being spoofed by attackers. Because such spoofing traffic is usually used to do reflection DDoS towards itself. So it provides path information and pays for the service. Second, the provider AI, typically large core networks. They use the information to filter smooth the traffic that pretend itself as sent by the subscriber. And they get paid for doing this. So why is this deployable? Because both sides have clear incentives. Subscriber got protection and providers got revenue. Next question is. how do we make this trustworthy? We leverage RPKI for this. Because RPKI already provides three things we need. Global accessibility, trust between networks, and secure data distribution. And this leads to our key object, SOA, we call the SOA. Source origin authorization. You can think of SOA as a trusted path note. It is issued. by the subscriber AS, the IP prefix owner, and start in IPQA and tell the providers what the legitimate previous hop AS should be. That means where the traffic will come to the provider AS. So provider can use this information to filter invalid traffic. Now let's move to updates. Yeah. The first major update. in a new draft, SOA profile. This draft focuses on the technical definition of SOA object, like what does an SOA object look like, how is structured, and how do we validate it. We also include some basic operational guidance, for example, where to deploy SOA for better effectiveness. And the second part is an upgrade of SOA usage. We addressed several key pieces of feedback. First, some expert point out that incentives were unclear, so we made it much more explicit. SAPs provide security value for subscribers and financial incentives for providers. And second, about accuracy of path information, they were concerned about that subscribers may not always obtain correct path data. data. Our response is we just want to focus on how to securely distribute the information after it is obtained. And we leave room for future methods to get this, such as BGP-based methods or AI-assisted approaches, or something else. About ACL limitations from a previous chair of side drops, we improved this. We improved this by integrating seven nets. That's another working group focused on source or validation, seven net. It has a draft about general SAV capabilities and it's supporting prefix-based interface blocklist or whitelist. And that's very fit our solution. And that's allowing, and we allow, and we allow aggregation of I saw a prefixes. And second, about dynamic routing issues. That's from Jeffrey Hess. Routing changes is quickly, but RPA is a little slower. So we propose several improvements. Subscribers should update as so as the route change as well as possible. Providers should increase the pulling frequency and use on demand. on-demand RPP fetching to reduce overhead. And we introduce real-time alerts for large-scale filtering events to check if it is true alert or wrong alert. Then let me briefly talk about the future work. First, we will refine ion considerations, and then we want to improve synchronization speed of path information. To the next step, to do that, we are exploring a two-tier architecture because RPCTI relatively slow, we separated the responsibilities. Tier 1 is RPCI is for peer discovery, identity, and base information transmission. And the other tier two is private channel. It's for real-time updates, allowing faster responses to routing changes. So we don't transmit the routing changes through IPQI. This allows us to balance security and the responsiveness and performance. And that's all my presentation. Thank you very much for attention. And we appreciate any comments or feedback. Thank you. Thanks for the presentation. I'm Nangong from Huawei. It seems like it's not a lot. like it's not a traditional sound mechanism and it's more like a path protection. So, you know, my question is, there may be multi hopes for the subscriber AS to reach the destination. And there will be many provider ASISs. So do that's the subscriber AS need to pay. pay for all the provider AIS to protect its source addresses? Sure. If it's a subscriber one provider service, it should pay for one, yeah. Every connection needs a cost. Yeah. Oh, my further question is there may be too many provider AISs and maybe one dimensional for the protection of one, I mean, let me refreeze. Okay, suppose we only use source address to do the validation, it may not enough. Yeah, we need the tool to promote by luncheon and raw. They can combine them to get the source address mapped to AS. Yeah, maybe you can also consider the destination as two dimensions. Oh, if we need a suggestion. Yeah, that I think may be too complicated. Lantern level. I have the same concern as Langone. Could you turn to the page 5? Yeah, yeah, yes. The first question is the name, source origin authorization. I feel this name is improper. proper because the content of your proposed signed object doesn't contain the source address or region. Sure. Yeah. It actually contains path information and specifically it contains a list of AS number, right? It's not source address or region. It's the, which ASA is your transit traffic to you. Yeah. That source may be. consider as source AS. Yeah, but I'd like to clarify that those are not source address. So I don't think, I think the name should be revised. And the second question is, I think the legitimate previous hub AS information is hard to be determined by the IP owner. Because the forwarding, when traffic is forwarding from the source, origin to the destination, the forwarding policy is not controlled by the IP owner. And you also clarify that maybe some AI tools can be used to find this information. But I don't think you are leveraging the benefits of RPTI. That is my second question. And my last question is you mentioned that there are two ways. ways in the future. The first way is using IPQI to store this information. And the second way is using a private channel to transfer this. Right? These are not two options. They are working together. We use the IPQI for first information transmission and then we establish a private channel. Yeah, yeah, yes. And my concern is that I don't think this information, information is suitable to be stored in IPQI because IPQI is a public database. Yes. But the payloads of the SOA object appears to be only useful to the verification is recorded in the SOAR object. So this information doesn't need to be public. So I think the second way is preferred. Thank you. Yes, that's also concerned me. So I split the responsibility. If we split it to two tiers, the path information won't show in the SOA object. It will only contain the basic information of the subscriber and provider, and they can send each other, and then other detailed information will be transferred by the private channel. And that's what we think about next step. about next step. And the second question, we are, in fact, we are doing the research about a difference between data plane and control plane data. So we can get the path information from the control plane data. If it is identical to the data plan path, we can just use the control plane. Yeah, that's the research of now ongoing one. Thank you. Nobody else in the queue, so thank you very much for here. So thanks to all the speakers that were very diligent. We have some times there so we can take the first presentation which is in the overflow list. Good afternoon. I'm Si Tonglin from Zhong Guan Chun Lab. I will present our draft for our deployment transparency. Let we start with problem. Our deployment remains partial and partial deployment is a lasting reality. So when an AS detects a high job. the hijacked route from the upstream AS. This means that the upstream AS does not deploy the ROE. When the current pass goes travels through the upstream compromised upstream, the traffic may be hijacked, even though the AS performs the ROE. Let me see the diagram 1. The original ASPAS pass is AS1, 2 AS2, 2A3, and 2 AS4. to AS4. S3 is yellow, means that it does not deploy the ROV. So when the AS5 announced the hijacked the prefix A and announced it to AS3, S3 will accept the fake source and announce the root to the S4. S4 performs ROV and fields out the hijacked root. S4 continues using the original path, S4, 2, S3, to S2, to AS1. S3, however, we are forward forward the traffic towards the vehicle region S5. So the traffic is hijacked, even though S4 has deployed ROE. The core challenge is that S cannot identify which alternative paths go through our deployed upstream AS. Our solution is, IWE, a new RPCI object declaring our deployment status. The core field is already deployed. A bullying must be true. The structure includes version SID and RWE deployed. The validation follows RFC-6488 template. The target is for transit AS. The stop AS registration is not recommended. The RWAT tag is designed for a defensive mechanism. mechanism, which is triggered only when a security problem is detected. The flow includes five steps. First, ASE performs our validation, detects hijacked route, and then it identifies the immediate upstream AS that propagated it and recognized current pass also goes through that upstream. upstream. If it continues on the current path, traffic will be hijacked. So the ASS can use our tag to find alternative paths whose immediate upstream has declared our deployment. ASM may prefer this safer alternative path to avoid the compromised upstream. It is noting that the defense mechanism does not change normal routine decisions. Let me see a concrete example. Without our tag, S4 cannot tell which alternative paths go through our deploy the upstreams. With our tag, S4 can fetch the AIWTAC objects, learns which of its upstream have declared our deployment. S4 can prefer passes whose immediate upstream has our tag, which are we deployed, to avoid the compromised upstream AS3. In summary, our tech provides a missing visibility when a security problem is detected. For the technical details, ASN. Dr. 1 defines our deploy a test station, which includes version SID and now it deployed. A validation follows the FC 648 template, and the storage can use efficient look-up, for example, hash tables. The target is transit AS, the stop AS should not reduce the ARW tag because they typically have limited the past choice. We acknowledge the limitation is that our tag is self-asserted. No cryptographic verification. that has actually performed ROV. But our tag is designed only for defensive use, which is triggered only when the security problem is detected. This reduced abuse incentive and the force claims carry reputation risk in routine community. We also offer an optional mechanism to recording inconsistent. behavior. When an AS receive an announcement include an RPCI invalid source, which under the upstream declare our OE tag on the RPCI, this is inconsistent behavior record. As can prefer ASS can prefer the upstreams with no inconsistence record when selecting paths. For our first state, draft to 01 is submitted and we are seeking feedback and discussion. An optional future direction is fine grain control. For current version, only a single hourly deployment deployed per AS is needed. This is co-grant. A potential extension is per neighbor declaration. For example, are we performed for routes from ASXY, not for loose from ASD? This enables more precision passive selection when an AS forms are we only for loose for certain upstreams. Thank you, questions. Welcome. Jobbner. Joe Snyder's BSD. I have some concerns in relationship to this proposal. This proposal mimics a discussion that has happened in the industry in peering DB. It's not the RPCI, but it's a central database for peering information where people argue, hey, should we put on your peering to be records, you know, not only your company name, your AS number, but also do you do ROFI? ROV, yes or no? And the discussions in that community led to an outcome that they decided not to include a self-asserted statements on ROVE, because it's very much do, don't tell. They're intrinsically, in having a data type like this in a database like the RIPI, it can be out of sync with reality. People can can accidentally publish an object. I do ROVE, while in reality they are not at all doing ROVE. In one of the slides you mentioned, well, there is reputation damage, maybe. I don't think there will be any reputation damage. It will, people will just be like this, this field, this object in the RPGI doesn't mean much. Then there is the complication that in ROV deployment, in my experience, especially in larger networks, it is possible that in certain segments of the network, you have ROV enabled, but not in other segments of the network. And this can change in the span of a few hours. The ROV can temporarily be disabled because the TCP connection to the RTR server is inadvertently terminated for a number of hours without. anybody noticing and then you have a discrepancy between the actual state of the network and what was described in the RPGI. Now, enumerating each BGP session, I think is a significant complication because some networks have tens and tens of thousands of BGP sessions times IP4 plus IPV6, times inbound and outbound. And there's so many permutations. and flavors of ROV that trying to enumerate that accurately is guaranteed to be out of sync. And then finally, what really is doing ROVE? Because if I use the only four out of five RER trust anchors, I will not be doing ROVE for IP resources managed by the RER, who's trust anchor I, I'm not using. So that would be like a partial ROV deployment. But what if my legal team says, well, you can use all the trust anchors, except that one for some reason. So from my perspective, it is not a partial ROV deployment. It is a very complete ROV deployment to the extent of the advice of my lawyers, for example. So in short, I do not think you can accurately capture the ROV policy of any network in a Boolean data type. And it will not fit in other data types either. So it will always be out of sync with reality. And that diminishes the value of a signal like this. So from my perspective, continuing work in this direction is probably not productive. and similar work in different platforms like peering to be came to a same conclusion. So I don't think any, there's no new information in that regard. So we will probably come to the same outcome. But thank you for your time in investigation in thinking of how this could be approached. That is much appreciated. Thanks for your comment. Okay, thank you very much. The time is over. We have one minute left. One minute left is not that much to do a new presentation. Thank you. So thank you very much to all the presenters for whatever question not solved here. Please continue in the discussion on the mailing list. We resume in Vienna. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.