Okay, it's time. Let's get started. This is the NetMod meeting for ITF 125. I'm Kent Watson. My co-chair Lou Berger is online. You want to say hi, Lou? And our secretary James coming is next to me at the table. This is the introductory chair slides. First, so we're midweek now. You're probably by now familiar with the note well. But just be aware that we do conduct ourselves in professional manner. And if there's any concerns with how the committee was initiated, there's there's rules and procedures for how that can be addressed. And similarly be aware of the fact that contributions made during the meeting are considered to be ITF contributions. There's a lot more to this slide and it's incumbent upon everyone to be familiar with it. And, you know, as we have this meeting. So in a little bit more detail, the ITF conduct guidelines, the ISG has had this meeting. The ISG has asked all chairs to remind their working groups of need for appropriate behavior. This is described in more detail in PCP 54. But in summary, participants extend respect and courtesy to the colleagues at all times. Participants have impersonal discussions. Participants devise solutions for the global internet that meet the needs of diverse technical and operational environments, and individuals are prepared to contribute to the ongoing work of the group. Some meeting tips. For in-person participants, those are in the room currently. Please be sure to sign in the data tracker. Hanging from the microphones and also outside the room, there's a QR code that you can scan that will take you directly there. Do log in, though. It's the only way for joining the mic queue, as well as for participating in a show of handpoles. If you do join the mic queue, be sure to remove yourself from the mic queue when you've completed making your comment. comment. It is possible for the chairs to do it, but it's just one less thing we have to worry about during the meeting. For the remote participants, the guidelines are similar, but, you know, again, be sure to log in to data tracker. I guess you must be if you're listening to this audio currently. And, but be sure to that your audio and video are off unless you're actually presenting during the session. or, you know, having a comment. Like, you raised your hand, you're asking a question. Then you can turn on your microphone and video. Head sets are strongly recommended. It's, you know, very common, unfortunately, that the audio quality doesn't come through. And it's almost, many times, for me at least, it seems to be Bluetooth-related issues. Battery going bad, something like that. So just be mindful. Audio quality is incredibly important for remote participants. As mentioned before, we are using Meet Echo for queue control. So at the bottom of the screen, you'll see a hand, a join queue, so that's the button to press. We'll put your name in the queue, which will show on the screen. And, you know, when your name's up, please come to the microphone and ask the question. ask your question. Also, online, we have chat and Jabber available for use. And there used to be Blu-sheets, but now that's automatically done through your data tracker login. And so it's not unnecessary at this point to submit or sign a Blu-sheet. Note, for note-taking, please everyone help us take notes. The link has been posted to the chat window. That opens up the Hedge Dock page. The Hedge Dock page is organized. you know copy paste of the agenda so each presentation will have its own place for notes to be taken and as much as possible being able to take the notes during the meeting is helpful definitely if you make your own comment be sure that your comment has been captured correctly the agenda and slides are online as you can see the URL there and also using the meet echo tool you can jump to them and of course the data tracker from the internet mod working group document updates so very nicely we've had a number of recently published RFCs this is great what we're here to do RFC 999 extensions to the yang data model for access control list 9911 common gang data types and 9922 common gang data model for scheduling so how about I to show him a the hands for that. Excellent. In the Editor Q, there are a number of documents as well. We have the Yang schedule Yang document and also the 8407 BIS and System Config documents. They're submitted to the ISG, but not yet in the RFC Editor Q, include the module versioning and BELAN and Interface Extension Yang documents. So a lot of documents have been moved into the ISG or outside of the working group. And she is busy working on them. I don't know, Mahesh, do you want to say anything about these, any of these documents? Okay, Mahesh is coming to the microphone. All right. I'm glad you brought it up. I just had the question back to the working group. I believe So let's start with module versioning. So I wanted to send the cluster of the three documents, maybe now four, but let's assume it's just the three, that semver versioning and file name is what we want to send together. I believe we are waiting on some directorate comments on the file name. And I think I put that comment and I'm waiting, I'm hoping that that the author in this case would address them so then I can send them together for publication. And I see Per has joined the queue. I think he's going to respond to that. Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Super. The Ianna considerations have been updated for module file name, and there are some other directed and I have waited to get them all in one go. And we're discussing it in the Yang version team as well, how to proceed. One comment was to don't use the sharp sign, but instead use something else, and we're discussing how to proceed. Okay. All right. I'm not sure if there's anything else waiting on the other two, I can go and check. I think. maybe December, I need to check whether that had any pending comments. So moving to subinterface VLAN, I did have a chat with Scott to figure out. I think there's one change that was requested a long time ago, and that's holding up its corresponding document. So I'm just waiting for that update before. that update before I can push those two documents for publication. So I know interface extension is on hold, I think, waiting for subinterface or the other way around. I don't remember. I think is Scott in the room? I think Scott's in the room. You want him? Two rows behind Mahash. Yeah. So do you want to give us an update of when you plan that to do that update? I plan to do that update once I can get a hold of Rob Wilton and have a conversation. That's where we are. I see Joe. I think we have a few minutes left at the end of this meeting. Maybe we'll use it for that discussion because Rob will be here also. I see Rob's online, but Joe Clark, you're in queue? Yeah, Joe Clark. On Semver, Tony Lee gave a review. there will be some updates and I need to reply to him. There was also, as you know, a typo in the INA considerations in Simver. So we do have some changes in GitHub, and now that the window is reopened, we'll publish them. Okay, excellent. And I see that Rob has applied on chat window. Okay, so moving ahead to the next slide. Document updates, so working group drafts that are on the agenda include the version of the versioning requirements and schema comparison and Yang packages documents. Not on the agenda are the Yang version requirements, gang any data validation, Yang version selection, and Yang solutions. But I think updates, I hope that updates for all those were sent to the list prior to meeting. Yes. Yes. Yeah, just maybe to give a brief update on the any data validation. There was a pool merge request in Lip Yang, and also we had like a hackathon last year. hackathon last weekend. I will just send an email on the mailing list. Thanks. Oh, excellent. Thank you. Shafan, isn't you? Yeah. So this is too far regarding the anti-data validation draft. Is this adopted because the name indicates said, but I haven't found the adoption call email on the list. Am I missing something? I just see the polling, RPR polling sent by loop, but not the but not the adoption call. Oh, okay. We'll follow up on that if necessary. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Okay, the liaisons and communications, we are incoming liaisons that are no, there are none. Outgoing, there's the one that we've had for a while now with the 3G BP. I don't. I don't. I don't know if anyone from 3GPP is attending this session, perhaps online, but I think their interest is with the immutable flag document, which we'll be talking about in this meeting. For this meeting, the agenda, of course, right now we're doing the chair slides. There are three chartered documents that are going to be discussed. First is the guidance for managing gang modules and RFCs and IANA registries, then gang packages. and lastly, Yang's theme of comparison. Okay. And then for non-chartered items, we have the MAC address as string, Yang configuration templates, XML encoding of data modeled with Yang and a baseline for Yang Next. And there's some time for an open mic, I mean 15 minutes by schedule, but already we're a little bit running over, so we'll see how much time we have for open mic can we get there. For working remote, just, you know, between the meetings, we do try to get work done. Everyone please try to utilize the mailing list. Working group consensus is always determined on the mailing list. Mailing list is used for making working group decisions and having discussions. So we pretty much do all of our real work on the mailing list, and we meet three times the year just to, you know, you know, have that high bandwidth connection, but the actual decisions are made on the unless we can have virtual meetings. If ever desired for having a virtual meetings, please ask the chairs to schedule one through. One final note, in the future, we're going to ask authors of, oh, and we do already, of working group documents to provide a status update to every working group document for every ITF meeting. So the status includes at a minimum, recent changes, open issues, what's the plan to complete? The update can be provided one of two ways. Preferably is a presentation here in the meeting, but alternatively an email posted to the list before the meeting. And with that, we conclude and we'll go to our first presentation. I can hear you. I can hear you. So, so this document, I've posted the latest version of this just either last night or this morning, depending on whatever time, then you're in. And effectively, this document is about providing guidance to Ianna and also the RFC editor in terms of how to process Yang document. Initially, the version aspects, but more widely, just has some guidance on how to process the end documents. So I've knocked this up the help from LLM to get the initial version going. It's had some reviews by Rashad and Joe and Jason, and then Amanda and Sabrina have commented on the early first draft, so as Sandy as well. So I've incorporated their reviews as well. So I'll just remind of how the whole thing fits together with a solution. overview. So there's three of these drafts we've already sent to this sort of sitting in the ISGQ or the post-working group queue and there's this fourth document for IRRRC editor that's sitting here. But potentially we want to move that one to sit in that fairly soon because we may have dependency from the other documents on this. And so as I make sure before, this document is from the abstract provides guidance the RFC editor and INA are managing young modules in RFCs and INA and registries ensuring consistent application of Yang, Selatic Version rules. So that's effectively what's just to do. And why do we have this document? Well, we met with IANA at ITF-124, and they asked for more guidance, and more clear guidance on how to correctly apply the Yang version, as in how do you get this right in the ANA registries. And they also asked that this could be done in the document form to potentially inform future IANA members. So the teams change, they'd like to to have some sort of pretty stable reference they could point to to help on board folks. And then the ream increased slightly to also cover guidance for the RFC editor at the same time because it felt like these were very closely together. The goal was to move reasonably quickly and Hes Stroth was written between ITF-124 and this one, the first version sort of seller for a while, and then I've updated over the last sort of week and published later once addressed the comments that come through previously. The aim here is to try and get this to be published sort of roughly the same time as the other three version drafts. I don't know it has to be exactly the same time, but it's so that we can potentially remove some of the the INA guidance document text in a couple of those documents and instead just rely on this one. So that's the reason why this is sort of trying to be reasonably quickly. As I said, the first version was the most generated by an ALM with quite a lot of prompting guidance from me. required a couple of efforts. I think this was super in this particular case because really it's just putting together information it's already in other drafts and things that we've written and the LLM did quite good job doing that and give you a reasonable starting point. It's a bit more verbose. And then the minus A1 version that I published last night was based on the feedback from Amanda and Sabrina and Sandy and has quite a few edits just sort of correct some some LL mistakes as well and sort of shortened document in various places where the LLM been bit for most for both of what it's done. There's a few issues worth opening but definitely if you're going to look at this I'd look at the O1 version. So there's four open issues here. I've got a slide on each of these. One is doing any guidance to Ina to list modules both by revision date and version. I find the final convention I think we have a conclusion for that. The document is informational is appropriate to use 2119 language. For the RFC editor and ADs, there's some questions I have about to allow the RC editor to be able to apply a RAT to ITF Yang models. So effectively using this version and gives a path to do that. I think that's relatively clean. We don't look at today. And then a question that came up from a shad about the section five is a relatively minor one is do we basically just reference the module version rules, send the rules, or do we have more text here? So I just got over the go with those, uh, each of those questions today. If there's time to get feedback on this, I'm running slightly over time, it would be good, uh, because then I can update this. So the first one is do we need guidance for my to publish list modules both by revision date and version, uh, i. You follow the final convention. And this is the register that looks like and I've highlighted the bits what I mean. And my proposal is that given we're moving to version numbers is that we can just list them by version numbers here. Otherwise, if they don't yet have version numbers, they use revision dates. I don't know there's going to be time to do polls for each of these questions now to go up to the chairs, whether you want me to go through the four issues and we can get comments across the list. I do notice that at least some of the INR and RTA members are in the room. Yeah, we can do a poll. I'll try to set uprope. Should I cover the next issue? Okay, fine. So we'll, I can wait or I can go through the next issue while you're writing the poll up. I don't mind. Do you want to go through all of them and then go through two polls for each? Okay, fine. Yeah. So issue number two is the documents information is appropriate to use 2119 language. And my proposal is yes, fine, unless the strong objections. I'm not sure we really need to even poll on this one. I think we're just, unless somebody wants to step up or say, definitely don't do this. I think this is just an editorial decision really um issue three is the rfc editor and ades do we want to allow the rfc editor to apply errant to ITF yang models and at the moment is it's not in the scope of the current document so we don't talk about that at all because our aims to finish more quickly um and my proposal is potentially this deferred to the velocity or velocity draft and basically i'm saying we're going to wait for instructions of the AD they want to expand scope. Mahesh, do you want to speak now or do to me to go through the fourth one on the coming? He's saying to go to the mid of the fourth one. Both, thanks. And the last one is, this is a minor one, is, again, is should we give examples of the Senvo rules? So again, the other one's really been very keen to be verbose in places, and it sort of copied in and references the Semvo rules in terms of a non-backwards compatible change or backwards compatible change or an editorial change. But it also includes quite a lot of of text there and I've changed it to be using examples and cut down a bit, but I don't know if it should be cut down further. And so that's my proposal is to keep it mainly as references, which is what it has, but keeps some examples to make it easier for readers to consume and see. But again, if Rashad is online today, if he's, yes he is, then maybe he can have a look and comment analysis as he raised that issue. Okay, can go back to issue number one? I have a poll primed for it. And Mahesh, wait, we get back to issue number four. Okay, perfect. Go ahead. So on issue one, I guess the question you're asking, I'm sorry, this is Mahesh, you're asking is should the registry have just a version number module and not the date? So the question I would have is, Does the registry allow for both? Is that? Because it doesn't allow, that's why we are having to choose between the two. I mean, Amanda or Supreme can probably speak to this in there in the room, I come who notes Amanda in the room. I think you could modify the registry to have both if you wanted to. It's just whether it's worth having that extra column in there or listing both under the file. So I think it's probably a choice. But if we're going to update all the models, to use version numbers, then going forward that seems to be, to me, like, the simpler choice. Like, do we really need both in there? I guess is my question. Okay. So, sorry, Ken, before you get an answer, since we have INA in the room, could we get an opinion on? Well, actually, can I ask a question quickly? As a contributor, is the proposal to replace the highlighted bit on the screen with the hash simver number? Yes, that's the proposal. I also have a question as contributor. Wouldn't it be, wouldn't it facilitate transition to have both, at least for the time where we don't have tooling that doesn't understand Sembar? And Amanda has on the list to say, or we can do both? both. Yeah, I mean, to lose comment there, just a quick reply is, yeah, we could do. I don't know whether there's any tooling that actually is relying on these paths, it could be exactly that way, including the dates. In terms of when Per was looking at how easy is to update tooling to pull, to have a both is like it's a fairly small change to do that, I think. As in, it's not like a big tooling change. It would be impactful. Right, but it still takes time for tooling to be rolled out and, you know, And my other comment would, sorry, it would be that I think the documents might need a refresh also because I think there is language in there that says both will be available. And so that's confusing if we say no, no, we have both, but in the registry will only have one. I'm not sure I have a conclusion from the discussion. I think that they could do both and that there was some inconsistency if we don't do both, therefore we should do both. If that's my understanding, Mahesh's nodding has had as well. So if you object, now is the time to come into queue. Do you object with what, how Kent summarized the conclusion of the discussion. Please join the queue. Kerr, you're in Q? Yes, I'm in the queue, and I don't object. This is the conclusion that I've reached for the file name documented. Both revision date and version should be in the registry. Okay, let's move the next issue. Number two? If you want, I think, I'd say let anyone speak up and say, don't use 2119 language, then I was just going to keep it in. Ah. Madda? We can do both. I think one question we did have is whether the old modules that we keep in the repository available for download that are not linked from the registry anymore if we are going to have to provide both versions of those. I mean, we'll have to calculate the version so that going forward we can apply version numbers. But... That's a good question. I think our plan was to add version numbers for the older versions, but I don't know if we were going to then sort of republish those as such. I think we were just going to have the version numbers in terms of the history and the module to be correct and we published the latest ones. Okay. I mean, they wouldn't be exact matches anyway, I suppose, since they'd have the version. Yeah. So on this issue two, we'll be happy. Yeah. Sorry. I think I thought your question to Amanda was, is it okay if we are using 2119 and this, that's that's enough direction for I know what to do, right? Or do they need it to be bumped up in, sorry, sorry, from an informational. document. I think is that the question you were asking Amanda? Rob, I think I wasn't sure when you called up Amanda, what was the question? I think Amanda was speaking to the previous issue is my understanding. I'm sure she correctly on the list of if not. But for this issue, it's like if there's any objections and they don't want to use the 2119 language, we won't. I definitely don't think we should bump this up from information. information is the right standard for this level. I don't think it would turn to standard struck a mistake. I don't hear any. It would be VCP if we were going to do that, but. Sorry. Even that, I don't think, yeah. Okay. Do we move with the next one, Kent? Yes, please. So issue three, basically, is do we want to bring a Rata into scope now for this document, document or to be deferred to the lossy draft? Maybe Mahesh is the person to speak to this. So somebody, maybe Rob, if you could refresh me on, what is the allowing the router? I'm sorry, I'm forgetting something here. So the moment mostly for a Rarata to Yang, said when I was in AD, I always had them hold for document update because you couldn't effectively republish the Yang model. There was no way you could republish it because that didn't make sense. And I guess you could have published them with extra revision dates, but they wouldn't have really appeared anywhere. Whereas now with Semver, you could potentially give some guidance to say, actually, if the RRAT was applied, then allow the RFC editor to republish that young model in IANN, with a new version that incorporates that change, that update, and then, and you know, that effectively it's done, and then effectively you get a BIS version later, then it picks up the later one of those. So it gives a path that you could actually then publish these documents, I think, and make it clear the error is applied. Probably you could have done that before potentially, but maybe this makes a bit simpler. But I don't know whether this is the document of place to do that process. Okay, thanks for that content. Go ahead with you. Yeah, I'm in Q as a contribution. I'm aware of the fact that if the errata is a technical errata that's been approved, that IANA does in fact republish the gang module already. Is this? It's been done once before. It's been done once before. It's just that most of the erratas are not either approved or not technical. And hence why so many of them have not been updating game modules since. I think Ianna is preparing a response. David, Ianna. As of right now, we don't republish the Yang modules with Aradus, even if it's technical. Okay, I can reply unless I'll point you to where it's been done before. Okay, thank you. Okay, I think regardless, I think the question we can choose, as you say, that we republish the Yang module. And I think, but this would still, it might be a question that the Velos project might have to answer is, how do we address routers as they come along? So I think it's worth trying to find out because I think it's just not INA modules, but also ITF modules, so how are we going to handle those? Thank you both. Okay. Call Kent. No. No, please go the next issue. Okay. So just to check, the conclusion here is kept us out of scope for this document at this time. Is that correct? That's my read. That is correct. Okay, thank you. And the last one, I know we use up extra time here. So again, Rashad, maybe you just check this one. If issue four key examples is fine, as long as it's clear. as long as it's clear that SEMB there is a normative reference. And so, yeah, Rashad Gould's come to the mic. Yeah, I replied on the chat. So it's fine. I think, I mean, I gave those comments a while ago. So I think I was concerned that the doc then was trying to have, to be the normative reference for this. So if it's clear that that's not the case, no objection. Thank you. Okay. Can I just ask you to have another trick, look at the dashi1, version for those, the cover sections, which I have to see if you think it looks okay now. And that would be great, thanks. So just what's left. So actually, these bits that are actually updated most of these last night and things like that. So really the updates that I think are open are these open issues and then sort of further reviews. And as I mentioned on the list, we could either do around reviews here, I think from before on this dasho 1 or dash or 2 after these issues have been addressed or we could push it straight to working last call potentially, but noticing it hasn't had that much in the way of reviews. So I think it gives a question to the chairs in AD in terms of how quickly they would like this to go from that perspective. Well, it seemed like there's a little bit of fit and finish that was needed and then we could bring it to the working group that's Blasco. Okay, I mean, similar sentiment, but I just want to, I guess the main reviewers here are the I and I and RFC editor. Yes, work group will have some comments, but I expect that I don't want to speak for them, but since there is limited audience in terms of people who have to review this, we should be able to turn this around. I hope at least we can turn this around quickly. Okay, thank you. And that's it for this presentation, correct? Yes, thanks. There is a question on the chat saying, what's the state of the tooling? I don't know if you can talk to that, Rob. I think Joe is going to be best present to speak to that because he's been working on this, so it's coming from like. If I may, Joe Clark. The examples Rob mentioned on his last slide mainly involved Piang, though I have done an update. That's a PR for Libyang. The Piang is a fork right now that I plan to push as a PR once we get more reviews on it. I feel with Rob's, Rob did a bash on a bash-on session a couple of weeks ago. I feel it's in really good shape. Pyang will recommend the next Semver. It will use 7950 rules plus the new Yang module versioning rules. It will look for changes in win and must statements in descriptions and flag those as potentially semantic changing, so it could influence the version selection. It can assume a 1.00 on a module that doesn't already have a Simver, and the version selection. suggest based on that. It does linting of SIMBERS to make sure that they're they're syntactically correct. It's, like I said, I think it's solid. My GitHub is out there. I can share the link on the list. I think I did last meeting, but I can share it again, if people want to bash on a little bit more. Sounds great. Thank you. I mean, Joe. Okay. Okay, next. Yep. Okay. So, again, I'll try this quick as I can because I'm running over time a bit. So the Yang Packages Updates, so this is version 07, so that's just been published. And we didn't publish one of the last ITF meeting. So this is covering two. And again, this is effectively where we are. Yang packages is like this fifth work item. There's potentially this 4B and ITF packages draft. We'll have to see in terms of that I'm not sure with I'll have time to work on that one. We'll see, but there's a potential one for describing those as well, so that might need some other people's help as well. But we are gradually getting through this entire list, which is good. So just a recap of what Yang packages are. So it's like an alternative mechanism for describing schema, which is like set to Yang modules and features and deviations and map points together, like what do those actually define and describe? And it's similar to what Yang Library provides. a little bit similar to module sets, but it's done in a fully hierarchical way, as it's designed to allow you to define a package that might cover a particular routing protocol and then absorb those into a package that describes a set of routing protocols and then absorb that into a package that defines an entire device and things like that, using different ways. They're all versioned in the same way that we sort of version modules. We're versioning packages using Yang Senva, so you can see differences and changes of packages over time. is that they should be made available offline and referenced by a URL. So one of the key aims of packages is that rather than the performance check being done, that you have to download Yang Library and compare Yang Library to what you expect it to be. Instead, you can just download the package references, as in the name and which packages are being exported. And you already know the contents of those and you can check very quickly in an easy way as to whether the schema is what you expect it to be or not. But it doesn't replace Yang Library is sort of sits alongside and both can be used. So where are we? We've worked through open issues. We've closed or resolved 28 issues since ITIF 124, so we've made some good progress there. There's 25 issues that are still open, but that sounds more than the really is because five of those are sort of ready for last checks before closing them, which needs to get all together to close on those. There's good progress on quite a few other ones. So there's a lot less work than the remaining as you can implies. And the Yang package model definitely seems to be stabilising, I think. So the hope is maybe to get to ITFL last call before ITF 1-26. I'm not sure whether that is a bit too far out or not. But again, I think it's getting close to being done. So I'm going to go through the sort of changes, what has changed between the last two versions, some in more detail than others. There's been improvements to the terminology, a little bit more clean up still to do there. There's been refinement. the Yang package definition rules to say you can't have circular package imports, some guidance on invalid package definitions, so from a total experience, so it sort of says what things you can't do. And we do allow redundant information in packages. Like if you include two packages, you're allowed to include information that you might not know has been invalid or is valid, but sort of been stated before, like you might express your to turn a feature on that's already been turned on by one of the included packages. and that's allowed. The drafts are not more guidance of package usage and talks about the difference between the difference between industry and SDO defined packages versus sort of vendor and device defined packages, a lot of different use cases, and we've given some updated considerations for listing modules within packages as being implemented versus import only. Now if I remember correctly, the documents doesn't say you must do one or the other, it just says, look, these are considerations you might want to take into account as to whether you want to list a module as being an import only module or implemented module. What else we've done? We've had some refinements to the package data model. I've got actually picture of the Yangtree output on the next slide here. So the Vincent small tweaks been made there. So we've defined a module name type to make that consistent using a replace. We've moved where features are. They used to be under the own top wheel container of included and excluded features and now they've moved under the main include and exclude lists we've done to renaming of plurals to singulars for the lists to be consistent with the young author guidelines we if the input only modules list that used to have a replaces version and we might get rid of that and instead we sort of list modules to be, import only modules to be excluded under the excludes list. And the reason for that is because whereas a Yang schema can only implement a single version of an implemented module, that's defined by RFC 790, you're allowed to effectively reference multiple included module versions. So we don't automatically get rid of those if you pick up two different imported only module versions from included child packages. and from this diagram earlier. So if I go just to explain that a bit more. So these two, if you had imports in, say, package D and package C, then of different versions of an import, only much of the package A would pick up both. And if you wanted to choose, one in particular, how to explicitly exclude them. So we've done that, so it was on the slide. And then mounts, we spent quite a lot of time on mounts. That's the last thing. It's always been one of the trickiest things. I talk about mounts a bit more further down. But we've replaced the replaces packages leaf with a single per mount, inherited packages leaf, which I think I'll cover later. And I'll just put it up here. I'll leave up here for a moment. The stuff in blue is the stuff where we sort of added or changed the various leaves. But I think now, I think there's one more thing that needs to go in this next version, but I think that hopefully we'll get into point where we think that this is pretty much done. in terms of this tree diagram was potentially changing. So what else has changed? So one of the changes that we had that has taken some thought is this ability for Yang packages to define a data store schema in the same way that module sets does from Yang Library. So Yang packages augments into Yang Library to define an equivalent schema using packages as is being defined using module sets. And one of the issues that came up on this is that if you use features, then under Yang Library's definition, all those features are listed under each individual module. We want to list them collectively as a single list or leaf list here. And without this extra supported features list, it was required that if you had a device allowed you to dynamically enable or disable, disable features you would have had to publish new packages to say this is a package with this feature enable or disable the factory as in which doesn't really work or make sense and so we've added an extra supported features leaf list that's used long line alongside the list of packages to define the schema um for given date store so the schema for device so um so that's the new addition and it's not in the conversion yet but i think we'll have to do the same sort of thing for mounted for map points as well for the same reasons. So I think we're lying those. We've added a dot YPKG file type for Yang package files to make it easy what they are when they're stored. We've reworked the text on package conformance and added the new section of package comparison tools. We've updated the security considerations to align them with the later templates. We've added an update the INA, considerations I know there's a comment from my analysis to act on this so we're defining a new yang package registry like the yang module registry for for listing packages that are defined by the ITF and we also now oh that's part of the i know considerations define this dot YPKG package file type as well mounted packages as I said this is one that sort of caused us the most problems and and add various complexities. So the reason amounted packages are complex is that removing mounted packages from an included package is very tricky to model. When you try to resolve and work out the schema, that turned out to be something that's a sort of gnarly issue. There's also the case that with more or less specific mount point. So you could have a mount point that is generic that has some keys on the path bar aren't specified and then a more specific version that amount points that has some key specified. What does that mean when you're trying to work out what the schemas are for those two different different places? And the third issue is there's not a lot less industry experience with scheme amount, as in it's not so widely implemented, it's in some places. And I think again, because of that lack of experience, it sort of makes it sometimes harder what to figure out. So there's been, we've got a time trying to figure out different choices here. And the latest solution is to go with a very simple answer and that is that by and large we assume that when you're pulling in mounted packages from other included packages and let me just jump back to this diagram here so what I mean is if package B here and package D defined packages you expect to find on a mount point perhaps like on a VRF mount point then package A by default would basically get the collection of everyone all the packages that are defined by B and by package D. So it gets a union of the schemas and that works recently well. And that's the different behavior. So it means effectively when you're coming along and adding extra things in, extra packages and extra modules you'll find on that points it works nicely. What doesn't work so well is if you want to do things that are different and remove them or or change features. And the So our conclusion to this is is simply to have a flag that says, I want you to start from scratch. I want to start from a clean slate at that mountpoint. So again, I'm not sure I'm explained this particularly well, but it would mean that if this example, you could say if package D said you're going to find ITIF routing mounted at the VRF mount point, then package B could say, actually, no, you're not going to find that. You're going to find vendor routing that then includes ITF brownity that deviates away some modules and add some deviations and things like that. So we think we've added a way of solving the technical problem in a fairly simple way. But it's potentially, we don't know, it's the ideal solution. We think it's a good enough solution for now and we can refine this better in future as we could experience. And as I said earlier, I think we probably need to add the list of supportive features under a map point. So I think that's the last, last change we need to make to the schema. So what's left to do, so it's not some issues to go through, as I mentioned. The key things really is to finish off the examples and expand of those. And I need to do some tooling updates just to validate those as well. We need to finalise the amount points, as I said, an update description, add supported features. So there's a little bit tweaking there. We need to define a package that you can use to define the schema for instance data files. So that would be relatively easy to do. and some relatively minor issues to resolve. So at this stage, I think the document is a pretty good state, although it's not quite complete to get more reviews from, again, from the authors and from the working group to sort of progress it. So I think that would be good. So we're still meeting Tuesdays 9 a.m. Eastern time to discuss the packages draft. And as I said, we're going to work through those particular things. There's more work progress on the tooling order. do. I'm hoping I can make that open source. I think I need to sort of finish that off and then go through the steps internally to see if that's allowed. But I think that would be useful. And, oh, any questions or comments? So that's where I'm at. We should probably move right along just because the previous discussion ran over a little bit. Okay. Thanks. Okay, waiting for slide control order on to. Okay, got slide control. Okay, got slide control. My name is Per And I will present Yang schema comparison on behalf of the authors. Yang schema comparison is an algorithm for comparing two revisions of a yang module and determining the scope of changes and list the changes between revisions, particular backwards compatible and non-backwards compatible changes. It does so by defining a yang module describing the output of the comparison algorithm and the algorithm can help to select the appropriate revision label or yang server. Since its reports BC or NBC changes. The solution and terminology then, the Yang module is ITF Yang schema comparison. And the parsed schema is the actual Yang source is the actual Yang source and compiled schema is the data on the wire. Let's see. So changes since the last ITF meeting, the issues raised are cleared. There are are some document updates, text for compiled par schema changes. The Yang module is updated. The example included is updated. The terminology has been updated and some editorial changes. And the Lib Yang reference implementation is completed. So the compiled part schema changes, the changes generated are either only for the compiled part schema changes. schema or both for the compile and parse schema. So the method to signal this is via an if feature in the ITF yang schema comparison yang module. And if both changes for compile and parsed are generated, first the compile changes are reported and then the parsed are reported, skipping the compiled changes are reported. compiled if they would occur in both. So a change is only reported once, not in both categories. And the Jang module updates in general, there is now support for all part schema statements. The schema structure has been unified to include both the compile and part schema, clarified some wording about backwards compatible extensions to an instance that it will be true for all sub statements as well. If it's added to an extension instance. And then we have all of the Yang module updates. I won't go through them in detail, but we can look at it later if you're interested or take it on the list or review the document. But all the statements have been, these are all the statements. These are of the statements that have been added. And here you go for the second part. Same here. A lot of stuff have been added, so it's a complete solution. And the grouping for the module substatements now includes all substatement to a model definition and the lists that have been defined for extensions, feature identity and deviation changes have now been changed to presence containers instead, and they only exist if there is a difference. these updates. The details are something we can look at later in the presentation if it's interesting. Updated the example that is present the compiled module example has now changed into something called a relaxed range module. The diff for this example now shows both the compile and parse changes. The terminology updated is the following that the module data node and data definition statement is a reference from rfc 7950 and the backwards compatible and non-backwards compatible terms have been referenced from a yang versioning requirements documents. And regarding the implementation, the Lib Yang reference implementation is completed. It supports the full Yang schema comparison Yang module and it, as I said, previously supports both compiled and parsed schema changes. And the next steps, we ask for testing and feedback by users, ideally with their custom yang modules. We discussed evaluating Joe's Piang schema comparison algorithm that can detect editorial changes as well. if that could be incorporated and improve the algorithm that has proposed. Investigate some in the feature interaction with yang packages, add some more examples to the documents, if that would be helpful for the readers, some final editorial touches. And when all of the above is done, then let's go for working group last call. Thank you. That is it. Questions. if we have time. Are you asking for any specific feedback? I would urge users to test a reference implementation and bring feedback. I see Joe's in the queue. Otherwise, a general read-through of the document would be beneficial. Paper, um, minor point maybe on the previous slide, it was 13, uh, new, maybe 12, the one where you said you linked there, um, you referenced the versioning rex for backwards compatible and non-backwards compatible. I don't know if it makes more sense to do the Yang module versioning because I think the intent of this document is just to expire ultimately, um, when we're done with all the work. I don't know what the ram applications of that would be. We do talk extensively about backwards and non-backwards in Yang module version. Yeah, I think I looked at the terms if they exist there in the terminology section. But I'll take that into account. Thanks. We are running short in time, so I think we'll move to the next presentation. Thank you, Per. Thank you all. I think it's, it's. presentation i'm scott mansefield ericsson this is a presentation that has been given in a different form to this group and also talked about it iatf and it's a very interesting problem to me it comes up on the iETF ietf i triple e liaison call from time to time and the root of the problem is that the example that the example that we're using is mac address comparison, but it really is a problem with all strings. So if you have a string and it's used as a key and you need to compare the strings, sometimes there are strings that are semantically the same, but the format's a little different. We didn't really have this problem in SNMP because of the way back addresses were stored. But anyway, there is an issue about strings and string comparisons and used in certain use cases. in the use case that we were looking at is mac address in this case because if you look at the ietf format the canonical format is different than the canonical format in i in 802.1 and i have a long presentation that explains all the history behind all of this which i will not go over now just suffice it to say that one uses colons one uses dashes but then it's also about one of them uses uppercase letters and one of them uses lowercase letters so you can't just say canonical and make the problem go away because the canonical formats are different so and i just said this line and 99 11 is done so everybody clapped already so we'll say but that's good and so the issue with the strings is what i would like to see is one of several things and um rob and i have been chatting through the strings the issue list in yang next about this a little bit and one thing i have a list here these are the options one option is we create something new and deprecate both of them and everybody uses the same canonical form we can modify the pattern so that anything's allowed we can add something to the yang language that indicates all strings are equivalent and so that's what we've been kind of talking about if there's just a canonical flag that could be added so that the programmers know that they have to go look into description to determine what's canonical and what's not and what the comparisons are we could change the way mac address is done we can do nothing whatever so this is i put it in the format of a internet draft at the request of i don't forgot who requested it but i put it in as a internet draft so that there'd be something for people to read if they want to see history they can come ask me more about the history of this i've got lots of presentations on this in matter of fact i think i might have did i put more in here no okay so not just a mac address problem looking for a more generic solution rather than just fixing the mac address problem um i know there's an issue with the draft i didn't put the right thing into the draft so i need to fix that and then looking for ideas and consider contributing to a solution and i know this rob's in the queue but you're the chair so you tell I think I know what Rob's going to say please Rob go ahead. So I basically well I can say two things. One is I think that this part of this could be covered on the Yang next. So I think that's the right place that we could potentially make a change but not sure again necessarily we're going to in particular the next version directly but that might be a good place to discuss this. The other thing is I think we should separate the mac address issue of canonicalization versus other ones so we have this issue just just for a given where you've got single type and it has a canonical definition that's that's written in the description and having a way of actually having the the to be aware of that and know that needs to do to special case handling i think that's a different problem the one specifically for mac address is this hey easy and i think has always been is like an organizational issue is that the i triple and ITF has two different definitions and they're sort of not budging and agreeing and i think that's the only way you can sort of solve that or or except you can't solve it i don't i don't think we should write extra rules in the in the language to sort of cover that particular case i think it's there's an organization issue where it has to be that both sides agree and maybe they both say this is the canonical format if they can agree with that by don't know that's what i think well as a as a reaction to that this has been going on for 10 years and that this in that convergence hasn't happened so that's why i'm looking for a generic way for yang to solve a problem that says i have a canonical form that i want to conform to but i have a different display format kind of like what s mp did right with display hints where and i know that that's not a popular thing but if the problem is solved where you can say there's a canonical form and these two strings are equivalent if they follow these rules and put that into description and that that would solve the problem and then the whole thing would go away it wouldn't it's not just four mac addresses but mac address the mac address problem would go away if you had that kind of that kind of that kind of capability in the language so i'm putting myself in cue as a contributor i think already it's the case that like for instance if we modified the pattern statement to allow for both yeah then it does suggest that both are allowed and presumably servers would know how to to read both formats the issue is not so much when you the data is going into the server but when the data comes server responds to the data right because at that time it's expected that's going to turn the data in the canonical format correct so i3e loses the format that they prefer hence the display hence it internally the canonical format would also be used by say a must or when expression but i don't think that's a concern to i triple lee i mean it'd be fine i i imagine for the uh in the yang module if i had a must or when expression to refer to the quote you know canonical IT i that wouldn't be a big deal it just when the data's been returned that's the yeah and the right and the issue that i have with just making the uh and it says it's the second bullet if the permission if the permissive pattern allows both then when it comes back then you're not sure that it's going to come back in the format that the other thing is using anyway so that that's that's not really an answer we have to to have some way to determine programmatically how these two things are are the same and so if again one of the solutions we have is to continue to do nothing and complain about this and talk about it in another 10 years but i don't think that there's going to be any change in what i triple e has and theirs i don't think iETF is going to change because of where we are we just need a way to make sure that if they if there are modules that use both which there could be in a system where you use some iE triple e modules and some iETF modules that there isn't a problem when you go to compare a mac address that's what i'm anyway that's it okay thank you scott and i do believe we called back some time it's great um and i see the chiffon is stepping up to speak to the temple document but it reminds me i wanted to say something about the immutable flag document which is currently in the shepherd queue and i believe that there's just a small remaining interaction like a response i'm waiting for on the immutable flag document also uh the liaison that we mentioned at the top of with three gpp is with an immutable flag document and i mean okay so there's been some discussion uh after i tf one twenty some people made a comment that there is some configuration that could be configured that would potentially become immutable and the example that was given was for instance if the default configuration format to date was askey but then there's a potential that the server could upgrade the data to support utf8 that it'd be a configurable flag the client could specify to say i want to use utf8 but that's a one way conversion in thinking about this with others the thought was that well that could then that configuration leaf while it was configured and running could then the system could replicate it in system and then it would effectively be immutable and so perhaps if a three gppp or anyone interested in that liaison is listening to the conversation is interested in pursuing that discussion further please reach out to to me and others on the known list and i really should have done the slides uh while i'll start yes so based on that discussion and conversation with kent i think uh maybe the authors need to submit a revision and if there is any objections from the working group just feel free to speak up and otherwise we will just move forward and go ahead okay so this is uh presentation is about the young configuration template work and on behalf of the author team i'm presenting this today so a recap maybe could start with two virtual interms to discuss the template requirements we have a repo to collect all the requirements that we wish to address for the template solution and at that two virtual in terms around 20 requirements were reviewed and discussed and the show of hands polling just decided the valid ones and it's also worth mentioning that even after the intermeetings there are still additional requirements were submitted so which i will show in a letter in this presentation and based on the discussion the authors have submitted this draft to document try to capture the requirements and the initial solution of the template configuration so the solution overview is that we have defined the what is a configuration template which is actually a fragment of configuration and is defined in running and a node in running can just apply one or multiple templates to which can expand the configuration in intended and any configuration from templates can also be overwritten by the explicitly provided a regular configuration so the change in the version 2 is that some that's on the I think the last presentation given by my co-author we have updated the draft we have added a couple of new sessions the session to add the about to talk about the deletion of templates the operational consideration and also we had added a new appendix session to document and track the requirements implementation status so there are still some open issues but so for this specific presentation I just would like to focus on the two top priority open issues that we would like to see converges so the first is about the validity of template at definition and the other is about how to model the contents of a template so the following two slides is about the requirement implementation status I guess I don't have a lot of time to focus on these two slides I invite the working group to review these two slides and especially for those that have not be implemented and fulfilled in our existing draft and because those are the ones that we believe more discussion is is needed and also I need to mention that the there is a note at the bottom of the slide so the requirements that is mostly opposed in the polling have not be taken into account and not have editorial requirements because someone read some related very specific issue related to our draft like they would like to see some examples. Those are not really some technical requirement that has not be included in this table. So the open issue discussion, the first is about that must template be valid when defined. So this issue has been discussed as an interim, but the show of hands pulling at the interim, really shows a split opinion. Even we are unsure if the no opinion is because it's just opposed to the entire idea or to doing it in a forced release. So the current draft says that at the definition time, the template content does not have to be fully valid because the authors believe that is just, maybe it's just, it's impossible to do that because you can miss the mandatory node, for example. So it doesn't have to be fully valid. But wherever the validation is possible, for example, if there is a range statement to found the value spaces, and so the server could validate the template configuration against that statement, then the server should enforce this constraint. in the template. But as the expansion time, because the template expansion is present in the intended and intended must always be valid as per an MDA. So configuration of the template expansion must always be valid. So this is really the existing solution we are proposing in the current job. So I want to ask the working group, is this acceptable or if there is any objections from me? a working group. Hi, this is Kent. First is chair. I just want the working group to know that we have time in our schedule to discuss these items. So let's try to spend some time to unblock these issues. And so on this particular item, I want to bubble up what is the actual concern. And so if we're not talking about pushing configuration to a candidate data store and we're just pushing into running, already it's the case that immediately it would be merged, the templates would be flattened and put into intended and intended as subject to validation. So immediately if there's any validation errors, that would come back to RPC error as part of the running commit response. So I think there's no issue when we're talking about pushing the running. I believe the issue is solely when pushing configuration to And I think the issue could be characterized as are we wanting to provide early warning response versus late warning, you know, like at the time that the candidate is being merged to running. So first off, is that characterization, correct? Yeah, I agree. Okay. Okay, so I think early warning is probably something everyone can agree with. That's not a bad idea. sooner you can warn someone that they've done something bad or wrong is good. The details goes into perhaps implementation and how it's done. And I wonder if this is something that needs to be standardized. Like what is it that the document needs to say versus an implementation detail? Because in my mind, it could be an implementation detail. Already it would be possible for any implementation at the time that an update is being to a candidate to silently or internally do the equivalent of flattening and merging to the to like an intended validating that and seeing if it's if they're it can provide a validation error and we apply with that. So it could be thought of as an implementation detail. So I'm wondering to the room and I'll let I'll stop here. To what extent we think this needs to be defined in the document. James, you're next in Q. Thanks. It's coming. A couple of questions. We talked about mandatory here. If a mandatory is defined in the template itself and it's validatable, how would you kind of intended to deal with that one, particularly if the templates not applied? I think it may tie into a later issue that you're probably going to talk about in terms of whether the template appears at all and intended. But maybe you could comment on that one. Yeah. Maybe just move to, well, when we move to that convention, I would have a question. There are any one? I just want to reply it. I'm not sure if the next issue isn't, if it's not this issue. But we may come back to this issue. Yes, two of all the issues are kind of related. We need to discuss that. Are you spelled Q or are you in the later? Okay, Deepak. Hi. Deepak. I was one of the person who was supporting for the validation in the poll. A couple of things. One is early warning. Of course, I agree there. And the second point that you were saying that it immediately gets expanded, right? That's not true here in this case because we define it under the any data container and it gets expanded only. We apply the metadata, apply template. That was James' comment. If it's applied. for the case when it's not applied. Yeah. And second point is, of course, 7950 always says running must be valid. So I do support validation at definition itself. So we have a lot of discussion about the validity of intended and the validity of running when we do the system configuration work. And I think folks agree that usually the server can, I mean, if intended it's valid, is valid, then running is effectively valid. And intended is a data store that contains the expansion of template. So from this point of view, actually, my personal would think there is no need for the server to just validate the template itself at definition time. I agree with what I see in this slide because if I have a mandatory attribute and I have to put that in the template, it may be that I have 10, 20 templates which are the same, but differs only for this mandatory attribute. So this makes the template proliferation for nothing. And then if I want to change all these 20 templates, I have to do 20 actions to change all of them, because I want all these 20 templates to be the same, but I want to apply to different configuration of these mandatory attributes. So at least for the mandate for the mandatory to I see a lot of value not to validate at the temporary definition, but only at expansion time. For the range, partner, length, it's clearly something you can validate at the definition time. So maybe I tend to agree with what I see in this slide that depends really on the type of validation we won't apply. Thanks. Okay, Kent is a contributor again. I think I also want to agree with this. this. So for the case where the template is not being applied, and therefore it's not possible for the implementation to do that behind the scenes flattening to the equivalent of the intended, validating the intended, then what? And I almost, you know, to Atalos point, if you have a leaf that's mandatory true, the template in isolation doesn't know that in the context in which it will be applied, that leaf will then subsequently become present and therefore it's perfectly fine. If there were validation done at all on a per template basis, it would probably have to neuter or eliminate all the mandatory truths and all the min element and max element expressions, because you just don't know in the context that template would be used later on. So to what, you know, certainly you could do some validation, like feel level type level, you know, like if it's a number, you can validate this number, if it's a string that has to have a pattern, you can test that. So there's just some high level validation that could occur, type level validation that could occur even before the template's been applied. But other things that are, you know, Yang level validations, I don't think it's possible because in isolation it's a subset of the whole. Getting at you, I'm thinking maybe the click the kitchen authorization is the validation that do not depend on the instance on the expansion can be done before you expand, like you said, if it is a string and I put an integer, no matter how to expand, this is not going to work. So I can do now. All the validations that depends on how you expand the template should not, must not be done because they have to be done. I think that's maybe the clarification criteria between what can be done and what should not, must not be done. Just thinking more tiring to you or your examples. question. Rashad, you're next in Q. Yeah, so I have a quick question. And first, apologies, I haven't looked at the draft since last IETF. So I agree with what's there and what Italo and Kent said, but you have other examples apart from mandatory nodes, like would it be when statements or must statements? What kind of other things could cause the template to be not valid? Well, I mentioned minikers. Sorry, I said minicur, I meant men elements. Or how about a range? Expression. Maybe not range. Okay. I'll take a look at the dock, but this looks good. To add to Rashad's point, I think we can also consider invalid hierarchy or leaf refs in the content and the leaf to which it is pointing to doesn't exist. Yeah. That's one example. It makes more important to have a valid configuration of the temperature. Yeah, so I will finish the presentation and then we can do a polling maybe at the end. Maybe at the end. Sure. Okay, but Rob, I see you've just posted something to the chat. Did you want to speak to that? Okay, fine. So as I'm basically saying, I wonder this ends up being very similar to the NMDA draft and talks about operational, and effectively it says, like the syntax of all the values must be enforced in things, but there's a set of semantic constraints that you don't necessarily have to enforce in operation. force in operational data. And I want to be sort of a similar set here. Maybe Mantry is an exception, but I think that's the sort of right solution here. So I agree with what's being proposed in this slide. You should validate what you can, but don't expect to be fully valid and then you validate it when it's applied in the intended data store. And from that running, if intended is valid, then running is implicitly valid at the same time. Okay, thank you. Let's do the next slide and then we'll do this most. Yeah. Thanks, Rob. So the next open issue is that how to model the contents of template. So currently, the template configuration is modeled as any data in the draft. So for example, you could contain a fragment of the configuration using the ITF interfaces model, and you can also be the fragment of configuration using any other modules that just supported. by the server. However, we also already made some limitations of using any data here. The first is that there is actually no schema to declare what a fully valid template is. But I think this is really depends on whether to should we mend that template validation at definition time. So if we don't want to validate a template at definition time, maybe this is something that fine and it can work. And the other limitation is about, because any data is not transparent, so it's not possible for the client to edit part of the template or calculate the data change. So any update of the template configuration would require the client to send the entire template configuration. So that's another limitation that to use the any data. So to think further whether there is any other alternative that we could use instead of using the any data to model the template configuration. So maybe we could, like, DMTAM has already touched this option, which is about maybe the server could automatically derive a schema. So the authors have not really think it through, but just try to provide some food for some food for some thinking. So maybe we could consider model the content as a presence container. And for each young module that the server supports, when the client just define a template, and then the server could derive a second template model and that augments the template content, that presence container. So for example, if the server implements the interfaces module and when that template configuration is defined, defined the server would derive a second model to augment the content. So to a client, the template content, just another young container whose contents is all the configuration that live in that template. For example, if, like, so if there is no mandatory, if no mandatory node provided, then the derived schema, young can just drop that mandatory note. So this has some implementation complexities here. So I, so, but maybe it could be a feasible way to allow the validation of template at the definition time. So the question to the working group is, does this value, the value of this option deserves such an implementation complexity? So this is my last slide. Yeah, so working. James, you had mentioned that we don't have a way to validate. We don't know what schema is for the data included in the template. And I guess that's based on the premise that any data isn't validatable, is that, is that right? Because if any data were validatable, you could reasonably say, like we do with the other part of data, that the first element needs to have a namespace. and that namespace obviously tells you the schema, and at that point, you know your schema, which is what we do for the main portion of data in. Yeah, so I also should mention that there is, sorry, I mean, there is an effort in the working group to discuss the validation of any data. So maybe there is another option for this work to just reference that work and to say that you could rely on that effort to validate that effort to validate your our template at definition time. And then if I understand your other option, which I think is probably actually two options. One is you could duplicate the schema and use that in its entirety as a new schema for a template, which I think is a valid way of doing it. But obviously has some downsides. And the other way, it seemed to be very similar to the full embeddraft that was proposed a while a while back Yeah, but it has inspired now, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Unfortunately, I did like the full embed draft. I hope that it gets resurrected at some point. Robert, your next in Q? I think that any data is the right answer here. I think this is what the Yang has for modeling this sort of data. I think this is what any data is designed to do. And so the validation side, I think that we should try and look at see we can solve that part of it. And maybe Alex has been in there with that draft help. I'm not sure, I think there's further complexities in terms of validating it. So I'm not sure that's necessarily the answer. But again, I think sure will work out what the answer to validating any data should be and then use any data here is my suggestion. Thanks. So if I remember from the requirement of template requirements analysis that was performed, this item, the desire to validate templates at definition time, was it like partially supported? Do you remember what the scoring? I believe it's mixed. Mix. Mixed opinion. That's what it was, right. And I think with a mixed opinion, it was unclear. unclear if it was actually mixed because folks didn't want to do it at all versus just not in the first release. So are we still kind of at that point where we're unclear if it's something that could be deferred to a future item? Yeah, maybe that could also be considered if. I see. Yeah. Okay, let's go back to the first issues. I can do poll. I don't know, Lou. Are you, have you primed a poll or should I do it? Deepak, do you want to comment? I did. The point we want the working group to address. I mean, are we agreeing that we need to validate our definition? Or, I mean, are we still in the same interim phase thought process? I think that's what the poll is. Are you on the issue number one right now? Yeah. Okay, great. Okay, so we discussed this when Shephan presented. it and actually I heard a lot of agreement in the room. In fact, I'm not even clear if I heard any differing opinion. Everyone felt that early warning was a good thing. I mean, there's some issues like mandatory nodes, obviously you can't really validate them. And Rob posted and spoke to the mic about, you know, other cases that we know about know about that can't be validated. But yeah, I actually heard a lot of consistency there. So I guess I'm going to do. Do you have a poll or should they do this? I actually agree with your summary. I don't think we need a poll. Yeah. Okay. I'm actually seeing a lot of nodding occurring in the room right now. So let's just agree that we agree with this item that that, well, I don't know if the title is correct, must template be available. I mean, it's the best, it's the best offer. It's the best time. Yeah. So I guess. So the current draft language is acceptable, is where we are. And, you know, there's certainly the opportunity for people to object down the road, but we don't have to ask this question again until there is someone raises an objection. Okay. And now you want to move to the next? Yeah. So can we just go ahead with any data to model the template? I think I'd heard some differing opinions on this one. So a poll is probably a good thing. Let me do that. And we use any data. Okay, a poll has begun. By the way, it's not a leaf. I mean, just the content is modeled as any data. Okay. That's true. But it's okay. Yeah. You're right. It's not leave. I'll just mention I put in no opinion because I actually think it's too early to decide. Speaking as contributor. Okay. Yes, I just, I also put in no opinion because I think whether it's validatable any data or unvalidatable any data is probably key to the decision. And I put yes, but I'm assuming that the any data validation draft is going to come and then that will provide the support we're looking for. I think you need to restate the question because I think you'll get a very different answer with that phrasing, Kent. If you can restate it exactly as you just said. Yes, assuming that the any data validation moves forward. Okay. Maybe just one comment, Deepak here. I think the point on the delta change is important in making a decision whether we need to use any data or not. Because we were talking in the interim about a living template which could automatically be updated on in runtime and it gets applied to the consumers. But then this being any data, the whole container is opaque. and it doesn't support any operation. So that's something that we need to consider. So I think right now we're only talking about living templates. There's no like not living template. That's the solution. I've reposted the poll with a clarification that assuming that the any data validation draft is published. Does the person who said or the people who said no opinion want to make a comment on why they're saying no opinion if they're meaning something else? Yeah, James coming one of those is me. the outcome of what the any data draft validation draft says is important here as well. So that's also the reason why I ask the status of that draft, whether it's adopted or not. I think there's, I think we're getting a sense of the room that people like the notion of any data assuming the any draft. any data draft moves forward in a reasonable fashion, but it's, we don't know where it's going to end up. So if it ends up in the right place, people will be happy. If it ends up the wrong place, we'll have to see. But we should move on because we're, you know, we're eating into Kent's time as presenter. Okay, great. Thank you, Shafon. Yeah, thank you. All right. Can someone ask me to echo the point of camera towards the chairs desk? Okay, so, Camp Watson, as a contributor, presenting the XML encoding of data modeled in Yang. And if that title seems familiar to you, because it's identical to the RFC-7951, with sent simply the string JSON replaced with string XML. So, you know, introduction for this work, in preparation for again next, it is desired to create a baseline document for that effort. And the baseline, in my opinion, and actually, I had some pleasant breakfast reading. Rob Wilton posted a document last night. But the baseline. it needs to remove the XML specific bits, the NECOM specific bits, you know, things that aren't really germane to data modeling should be removed. And so that's what that baseline effort is about. And that, so specifically speaking to the XML bits that we want to remove from RFC 790, that is what this document is about. It is the home for that information. It is nothing to do with the new data. that comp specific tips. It's just the XML specific bits. How was this document created? First, copy, paste, edit, RFC 7951. This is Lauda's document. And the whole outline of it was, seemed correct and proper, and it should be used. And effectively search replaced JSON with XML. And there was, of course, lots of JSON specific examples, and each and every one of those got converted to the equivalent XML example. Removed any additional or JSON specific bits. So, you know, that document talks about using prefixes. You know, the module name is a prefix. And so those, that text was removed. And then massage remaining text to be XML specific. There's a few things here and there. Once that was done, then it was, the effort was to relocate the bits from RFC 795. So section by section, and, you know, almost entirely, it was primarily the XMO encoding rules sections. You know, those rules were appearing in 790 under various data nodes. And he was talking about how do you encode a leaf, how do you encode a container, you know? So essentially moved those, that content, or copy pasted that content from 790 over into this document in the appropriate spot. in the appropriate spot. The XML comments show the details. If, I know we all normally look at the text and the HTML renderings of the document, but if you look to the XML of it, you'll notice that there's comments in the XML, and it tells you exactly where the parts came from. Here's an example. It happens to be for the Leaf Data node, but it starts off with a comment saying that this part is from RFC's 70s, 5950, section 7.6.6. And then there's another comment saying that it was a copy, paste, edit from 7951, section 5.1. And you'll find comments like that throughout the XML. So if there's any question about where did that source, where did that content, you know, where was that source from? I didn't, you know, this is trying to leave any concerns that new content was created. In fact, I should state up front that there's no change that's being brought here. It is the identical, it's intended to be the identical encoding that was, you know, provided by 79050. It's just simply been moved to a different document. And here's sort of the proof, the traceability matrix, if you will, of that. I would say that the document is almost ready for publication, even though it's not even adopted yet. The document is nearly complete. It could be published as is, but there's a few things to discuss. First is the NEXML node. It's a given. I believe that Yang-2-0 will remove the NEXML node. In fact, it's Yanex issue 105. And so it makes little sense to publish this document with any XML. And actually, it's likely best to coincide, it's likely best to coincide publication of this document with the Yang Next document. In the same way that RFC 7951 was published, alongside RFC's 790. The numbers are one after the other. So whatever number is being provided to Yang Next, this could be the plus one to that. And, you know, so we don't need to publish it currently. I don't necessarily want to stick in the, you know, I imagine the Yang Next document will last a long time, years so not too many, hopefully. I'm looking at Joe. He's thinking about the packaging of Zimber effort. Sure. Hopefully not too many years, but it's not going to be quick. Whereas if we wanted to publish it, we could publish this quickly, another option would be to go ahead and last call it, put it into RFC Editor Q, but then it'd sit in Mahesh's or the AD's Q and it would turn red and be in the triple digit numbers and that's not good either. But that's, that's process details. Okay, that's the first issue. The second issue is a certain schema only notes. When we're going through RFC 790, I found there were some sections that were XML encoding rule type sections, having to do with what I would call schema only notes, such as choice and uses and RPC and action, notification, and augment. These don't actually appear themselves in the data tree, and yet there was some discussion, some text around how they're encoded. I don't know, it's not clear to me whether or not these, maybe they stay in RFC, sorry, Yang Next, you know, the RFC 50, 70950, BIS document. It's not a BIS, but that document. They stay in that document, but they're not, they're converted from being XML-specific to just being, like, more generic encoding specific. Anyway, so those are the two issues, and that's it. Any questions, comments, or concerns? That would this work? And I will run a few questions. when we're ready. Did I see someone coming to the mic in the room? I couldn't tell. All right. So the first question is, is there a general interest in this document at all? Assuming I can get this in here. So this is a simple yes, no poll. Is there interest in this? Okay, so that was quick. I think that's overwhelming interest, at least by the participants. Although I'll note that the participant, it's less than half the people in the room. So, but I think this is still a good indication that there's interest in this work. So that's awesome. The next question is a little different. It's actually going back to the discussion. discussion of that Kent had earlier about, do we wait or not wait? So should we publish, should we look at moving forward as is, or should we wait for Yang next? So yes is don't wait. No is wait for Yang next. So, Adortha, no, it really means wait for Yang next. No opinion means you don't like. like the question or, you know, you don't want to answer the other ones. Okay, so this is about the same number. And frankly, I'm shocked at the answer. To me, there seems to be a lot, as a contributor, it seems like to be a lot of value if we just publish as is and not wait the years Kent was alluding to about waiting for Yang next. But that's not the working group opinion, which is cool. So that's great feedback. So the group thinks it's worthwhile, at least the group in the room, thinks it's worthwhile to include the Yang Next and not publish until the Yang Next is done. All right, last poll. This is basically leading towards the adoption poll. Let's see how fast I can get this going. So should this document serve as the basis for a working group document on this topic? If the answers are overwhelming yes, we will end up doing a poll after the meeting, an adoption poll. So this is roughly the same distribution we've been seeing through these polls. If the person who said no is willing, I'd love to hear what their objection is. Well, that was me. And I was just wondering with exactly the question that Kent asked is, okay, we adopt the document. And let's say it goes through the work group and it lands on my desk. What do I do with it? I think that was the previous poll. So if the previous poll was, should we hold on, should the working group hold on to it until Yang Next is ready? So it actually would stay with the working group. Okay. Thanks for that clarification. I wasn't just sure. So yes, if the agreement is, it's going to be tied to Yang Next. And that's what the document is going to, absolutely, that's fine. Thank you. Yeah, I have to say I'll try to convince people to advance the document once it's stable, but, you know, I'm just one voice as a contributor in that regard. Okay. So the conclusion of this is, yes, we should run an adoption poll after this meeting. So, Kent, that's great. If you want to move on to your next presentation. Excellent. The Yang 2.0 data modeling language. So introduction, Yang Next has been discussed extensively. It started 10 years ago, actually, in 2016, when the Yang Next Issue Tracker was created. And then about three years later, ITF, I think it was actually just before 104, there was a few meetings just try to score some of those issues. At that time, I think there were only 50 or 60 issues. There weren't that many issues, but half as many as there are today. So there were some scoring and I gave a presentation. If you click on the link, you actually, it's a link to the presentation, and you'll see that presentation. And then it fell dormant for some time, five years actually. And it was actually the, it was an ITF 120, which was early 2024 when I resurrected and brought it back to the work group saying, hey, let's let's, you know, bring this back and resurrect this. effort and we've got to move forward. There was some discussion, there was desire to go back to complete the scoring of the issues for which there were six meetings. You can see August 6, you know, August through October, six different meetings. Each meeting was roughly two hours long with a dozen participants. Many, many man hours were put into that discussion, which was then brought back to the working group in ITF 121. And again, these are hyperlinks. You can jump straight to the presentations if you want to see what those were about. But, you know, top level point here is that it's been discussed extensively. One of the discussion points was, you know, what is Yang next? The word next was, as placeholder, we weren't sure, is it a 1.2, is the 2.0? But based on those reviews, it was somewhat determined that it should be a 2.0. And the reason why, and first off, what we mean is that it's a minimally non-backwards compatible version of 1.1. What does that mean? It's mostly Yang 1.1 with a few non-backward parts. We just have to break backwards compatibility in a two places, but in terms of implementations and tools and whatnot, the hope and the goal, I think I speak for everyone, is that it wouldn't go too far off the rails. And I saw that in Rob's write-up when I was having breakfast this morning. You know, should we do a baby step, a 1.2, which would be a backwards-compatible version of 1.1? That seemed undesirable. What I understood was that it was felt that it was too disruptive with little benefit. Not enough benefit. You know, for instance, there are many high, medium. important issues that are not backwards compatible. So if we did it, we just wouldn't be addressing the core issues. And hence we, it's not really thought that a 1.2 makes sense. Hence a 2.0 and why the name of this draft is Yang 2. Notice it's not RFC 7950 biz, right? So it's not trying to obsolete Yang 1.1 and we publish Yang.1. It is publishing Yang 2.0 in the same way that RFC 790 did not obsolete RFC 6020. And in fact, there's coexistence, right? So 1.1 coexist with 1.0. And while these slides don't talk about it, there is a coexistence section that essentially says that 2.0 can coexist with 1.1 and 1.0. Whether or not that's actually possible, I don't know, but that's what the document currently says. and, you know, of course, it can be looked at in more detail as we go forward. How is the document posted a data tracker created? So on data tracker, if you look at that, you'll and diff it against RFC 790, you'll see very, very few diffs. It looks boring. But essentially, I got the XML from the RFC editor because back in the day, they didn't publish the XML, so I had a special request. I converted it to the V3 format. And then I did some just high level, you know, editorial type items, replacing 1.1 with 2.0, replacing Martin with myself as the editor, adding a discussion venues section. I like it how Shippon has done that to her documents with a pointer to the GitHub tracker and everything. And I had to fix some out-of-date references per ID NITs. So, you know, for instance, 6991 is now 9911. The keyword section had to be updated to add the new. BCP 8174 and I updated the acknowledgments and contributors section. So, so, but, you know, top level here is that's the absolute minimum that was, you know, possible, I think, in order to put out, to actually publish something to Data Tracker that it would accept. You can, of course, click that link for DIFs. The document posted to Data Tracker is not the baseline. The presentation title of this presentation is, it's a baseline for Yang Nex, that that is not the baseline. It's a baseline for the baseline, if you will. The actual baseline intends to be a starting point for the gain exchanges. Essentially, the actual baseline, what this presentation is about, is just trying to remove the XML and NetConf specific bits from RFC-7950. And so how is the baseline document created? Well, first off, you might say, well, where is the baseline document? Well, it's in a branch. It's in GitHub, it's in a branch. I think the next slide points to it. So there is a document. How was it created? First, the abstract and introduction sections were updated to be 2.0 oriented. I created a summary of changes from RFC 7950, which is, for the most part, empty. Well, no, I take that back. It almost looks like the remaining bullet points that are on this slide. Then I created a protocol mapping section, which is new and different. But it has two subsections, which are not, we don't go into detail in this presentation, but one subsection, I think it's called basic conformance, which essentially says that any implement any server claiming to implement Yangt.0 must support the operational data store. If there's configuration nodes, then it must support the running data store. If there's any RPC or actions, then I'm sorry, RPC nodes, and it has to support the operational data store as well, and then I think notifications. Anyway, that's all it says in the basic conformance. And then there's a placeholder section called specific conformance or, you know, Yang Tudito's specific conformance. And that section's intended to be filled in later on, and it's going to be highly contentious, but the things that I would expect or hope to go into that might be that the server must implement NMDA, the server must implement Simver, things at that level, right, where we're basically saying you are not conforming to Yang Tito unless your server does these things. But it's not in this document currently yet, but it's kind of a placeholder section for those things to come. And four, it emphasized namespaces over XML namespices. So 79050 had XML namespaces everywhere. Just we've converted that to namespaces. So it's generic. generic and, you know, easily accommodates JSON namespaces as well as XML namespaces. Removed the announcing conformance information in NETCOF sections, removed most of the XML encoding rules discussed in the previous presentation, removed all of the NECOP edit configure operations, removed some of the usage example sections, removed the NECOF and the NetConf constraint enforcement model. So now it's just simply called constraint enforcement model. because it's not really a netcom specific. It was just how a constraints enforced. Removed NetConf in the section called NetConfig processing. So now it's just edit config processing. In fact, I think it's actually called configuration processing because edit config itself has a is a NetConf command, right, or operation. 11. It added 1.1 to the coexistence section. So it does say that 2.0 can coexist with 1.1 and 1. I don't know if that's actually possible, but that is what it says 12 in section 4.2, the language overview. For each XML encoding example, there's now a matching JSON encoding example. So I mean, there has to be some examples, but I didn't want them to all be XML because, you know, we don't, we're trying to not make this document not be XML or seemingly XML specific. So I felt that having a complementary JSON example for each XML example was best, and an option would have been to interleave them. So every other example is an XML or a JSON example. I think Carson asked, why aren't there any Seabor examples? It could get out of hand. If we had to pick one, I'd pick JSON, but anyway, that's what that's what currently is in the baseline document. And then for each of the NetConf example XML, sorry, NetConfit XML examples, there's now a matching JSON, JSON example. So, you know, how do you execute an RPC, well, here's how you do it in NetCom, and here's how you do it in JSON, or RESCOM, using JSON. So that's what, that's all there. The hyperlink at the bottom left gives you the diffs, easy to see, easy to compare diffs. Again, this is in a baseline branch waiting to be merged. The baseline version of the document is held, the hyperlink is there. What would allow it to be merged? So is there the process, I've chosen as editor, like we can debate what whether or not that's the right process. But essentially, I'm hoping that there's, you know, using GitHub approval, like, you know, there's some number of approvals that need to occur. I think this depends on how large of the team of approvers are. I have sort of a dream team in mind that would be like, say, five or six folks. And if one third of them, so two approvals would be, you know, good. But I sent an email to the, and got no response. And so now I'm thinking, oh, well, how about all Yang Doctors? There's, you know, roughly 18 Yang Doctors, so one third of them would be six. And so maybe six, if we, if we choose Yang Doctor, to be the set of approvers, so six approvals. So, you know, a good number of approvals. No open change request. All comments have been resolved. And once all that done, then the editor would take it to the list or NetMod lists and ask if there's a any objections. And if no objections were received, within two weeks time, it could, that branch could be merged. And, you know, whether or not that constitutes consensus, this is something that I think Mahesh was questioning with a plus, you know, we can discuss. But essentially, I do hope this to be a GitHub forward effort that we leverage and lean into using GitHub. Being able to comment on pull requests, it's just amazing and great. And Um, you know, generally I want to do, I hope to do that. So once the baseline branches have been merged, then, um, the, the goal is to merge that branch before any other branches are created. Immediately, I'd love to create a branch to remove any XML, but I'm not creating that branch yet because I want this branch to be merged first. Uh, once this branch is merged, then, you know, any, a lots of branches could be, um, um, created simultaneously, uh, you know, in parallel that can be worked on it in parallel for each of those branches. It would expect it that they would go through the same PR emerging process, uh, subject to constraints mentioned on the previous slide. So the same group of reviewers, you know, one third of some number of code owners would be necessary to approve the PR before could be merged and, you know, no change, no outstanding change requests, no outstanding comments and no objections from the list. So that's it for the presentation. Any questions, comments, or concerns? One comment, just on a process comment, um, as an editor, it's being a share, uh, an editor has a lot of discretion on how they judge working group consensus, and there's nothing wrong with running a, um, off list, process to bring to develop content to bring to the working group and then judge consensus on list. So yeah, you know, you mentioned earlier that that might be a process problem. I don't see a process problem in that. Now, if the working group doesn't want to work that way, that's a different question. But from a process perspective, it's okay to develop it completely on GitHub and then bring it for gauging consensus to the list. Joe? Yeah, I was going to say something very similar for 5706 bis we don't have such a large committee we do two approvers we merge and then we bring it to the list um so i would just say keep the process light on the gethub side get it to the list even if it's a dash oh oh next or whatever then just get the people talk about it don't wait for all this pre-approval I'm a big fan of using GitHub to develop and track issues i think it is a way that does help bring people together that are working on these of course now you know there's a butt coming the there are people that do not like it so I don't know that there's so many of those for this type of draft but I have heard enough other in other groups this week about people complaining about the use of GitHub and not in it not being inclusive of people to help them comment so my question is really what is the mechanism that you're using when you say you want to use GitHub are you using Martin Thomson's markdown are you just doing XML are you generating when you do a pull request or you you generating the text of the documents so you could point somebody at it so they don't have to know gethub in order to use it do they need a gethub ID these are the types of things that just to make sure that i can tell people when they ask me how best to contribute okay quick responses no uh get hub ID is necessary it's a public document it is xml because it's from the rfc editor and that's what it was to make it more inclusive uh when the branch is created i could also put a message to the list saying hey a branch has been created to talk about this if you're interested you know follow along so there's a few things that we do to be more inclusive i have also a big fan of githab but with the current process on working group i think we need to keep it up very informal is i like victor because you can track issues you can try request you can really do something but as long as the concessions on the the list we need to publish a document my suggestion to you is to make it lightweight for example what i discover some issue is that you create a pull request you ask people to review and you don't get a review but you have to publish tomorrow because it's a cut-off deadline so what i usually do is okay i publish i merge a poor request i publish the document on the list people can always make comments can create issue against the document anyhow so no i don't my suggestion is not to be too strict on on the rule of merging and d i don't have any rule on my githab i didn't see anybody doing nasty thing like merging a poor request without asking a view and sometimes also the comments people make a comment on the poor request it's a big comment it's not easy to resolve there is github makes you can make create an issue out of that comment and still merge the poor request and keep track of the issue so that i i think you put a very strict rule you can be more liberal if you help to help people and last comment about scott i will i like also mardown there is a way to translate from xm and to to come down maybe you can think for the next i can help you if you wish to go to yeah just one more comment the um there's a github i.o page for the and yes it presents it renders both text and the html not just the documents themselves but also the diffs of the documents that's why i love um martin thompson is very great to yeah and that it's just you know we're over time but i do want to get the polls in so i'm going to run uh i'm going to run a couple of polls it's oh you can keep standing at the mic i'm not trying to stop you you have time it's okay it's okay i think we i'm done i was just getting feedback but my answer is yes so the first one uh it's clear there's interest so i'm going to phrase this question a little differently than before and specifically is it time to adopt uh what there we go is it time to adopt any document on this topic of course of course we only have one submit to adopt so it's not a beauty contest or anything but is it time so i saw strong support on both of these um uh so thank you thank you all um also thank you for a good session for a good session We always think we're going to have time and we always manage to fill it, but I think we've filled it with some really good discussions. So appreciate the participation of everyone in the room online. I appreciate Meet Echo having us having a pretty much glitch-free session and Kent and James, thanks for being there in person. I look forward to seeing you all at the next meeting in Vienna. Kent, anything you want to say, close us out? No, all good. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.