Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So identify how things are going to fail. All right, let's get started. Can you hear me reasonably well? Okay, I'm modified. Okay, welcome to the CCWG meeting at IATF 125. This meeting is being recorded and make sure that you've joined in Medico, especially if you're in the room. So you're going to need to join the queue with the Q button. If you're remote, you can send audio with the microphone buttons, same as usual. Yes, Martin, Eric is muted. The microphone should not be muted. Hi, there's the other camera. Well, I think someone was saying that... Ask them to speak in here. How well can you hear? You cannot hear in Shenzhenz. Can remote folks hear? Yes. We can't. Okay. Sounds like we need to. We look like Jonathan is speaking. We can't hear. We can't hear Jonathan either. Give them. Give them a brief. Cool. Re-justed. That works. That works. That sounds promising. You can hear us. All right, much success. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. This is the part we need to recover. This is the ITF dealt well. These are the terms under which we participate in the ITF. Note that we operate with a code of conduct. If you observe any violations of that code, you need to reach out to the chairs, the responsible for the Ombuds team. Please also take special note here of your IPR declaration requirements. The moment you become aware of some IPR relevant to what we're talking about here, there are some obligations for your disclosure of that. So please make sure that you've read the relevant documents. Yeah, we're getting some of the echo, too. Got some helpful links here, mostly for clicking later. And this is our agenda for today. So we have a super packed agenda. So we're going to try to make it zippy as we go through. Please try to keep your comments when you're in the queue as concise and useful as possible. We'll be using the timer. And our first topic today is the rate limited document. This is more of a call to action. There were a couple of non-trivial changes that happened during and after the last call. So we don't have slides for this because it is explicitly a request to go please look at the latest version of the document rather than a slide version of that. But just a quick heads up to the working group. And this is also there on the list that there were some changes that happened there. So go take a quick look just to make sure that things are still in good shape. Any questions there? there. If not, we should have an Ian. I do not just see an Ian. There's an Ian. Hello? Can everyone hear me? Yes. Take it away with some BBR. Oh. Thank you. You're going to present for me, I guess. Right? Yes? Yes. Okay. Okay, next slide. Yes. So we've continued to make excellent progress and just kind of closing out some minor issues. You can, oh, I can advance. And yes, there are three open issues. Two of them are relatively minor. One of them is more substantial. And you've seen these slides before, but this is just a reminder of you know, if you want to if you want to read the most recent editors copy of the draft or file issues online, then, you know, this is where to go. So in this update, there are some logic updates that have occurred. In particular, this kind of our refinement to the pacing text. I think that was written by Neil with help from Christian in particular, so thank you. It's also some behavior about various T-Skbe specific behavior. specific behavior. Share with that. Ends of loss recovery. In particular, if SAC is not available, what to do. Obviously, you would like to have SAC available, particularly with BBR. It is definitely not optimized for cases when SAC is not available, but we always need to specify what the algorithm should do in such a circumstance. And we've said there's an open issue about kind of what happens if you get stuck in drain forever. And in the end, we decided to exit drain after 3 RTTs if you hadn't fully drained the queue. The math indicates that you should have more than drained the cube by 3 RTTs, but we didn't want to have a situation where you just got stuck in the same phase forever. Some other issues could arise. So those are the actual technical, like, algorithmic changes. If no one has questions, I'll keep going. Great. So we have a number of editorial changes. We continue to try to remove TCP-specific stuff from the draft. We are making excellent progress and have removed almost all at this point. I add some tests on offload budget for Quick in particular. It's slightly different from TCB, but in the same spirit. And then there are a variety of kind of pseudicode sort of fixes just to make sure, you know, things actually worked out. you know, arguments were aligned, and so as if we're naming this correct. So, I should come back. So as you can see, I mean, at this point, we're really mostly getting into the fine tuning of the raft. You know, I mean, I don't think any of these changes are considered enormous. Certainly, if any of the functional changes, you take a closer look at them later, and you find that you don't like them or they're concerning, then, you know, we can revisit those, but I think most of them are fairly safe. So. I started writing a PR to add test cases. I have not finished that PR, so that's on me. But there's still kind of a hope that to at least write up in broad strokes what the key test cases we think are that should be tested for to ensure that you don't hit kind of some fairly common pitballs that other implementers of it. So like this is really very much an effort to define all the cases that might otherwise cause you to say, like, my BBR didn't perform very well. Why is that? And instead of one of the other people who implemented PBR having to come to you and go through your code with fine tooth comb, you know, if you think you've passed all these test cases, then hopefully there are very few remaining kind of gotchas that you could have. So, but that is going to happen soon. And the other issue, the non-TCP aspect, as I said, we made a lot of progress on this. It's not quite done. quite done. It's getting very close. And the last, the third of the three is kind of purely editorial issue that I think Martin Seaman, so thank you. And thank you for the general review from Martin. So yeah, I mean, at a high level, that's where we are with with the issues. There are a few things still hanging around and they have been kind of around for a while, like this ACPA. I think we discussed this at a past IATF, and this is mostly a case of, we think this is a safe change, but we need to verify. And there's this much more complicated issue, which is kind of a restart from idle issue. But again, we have discussed this to some extent at a past IATF. So unless someone has particular thoughts on other of these two issues, which you're welcome to comment today, or comment later on the list. But I guess another of these are particularly new. And yeah, so I realize that was a little bit faster than scheduled, but hopefully the direction we're going is in is kind of what the working group is expecting. And, but if there are any questions, comments, suggestions, please come to the mic or feel free to come on the list or afterwards. Or did the chair have any questions or comments? That's also welcome. All right. Thank you, Ian. Do we have anybody, I know in past ITF meetings, we've had a couple of the different folks who are working on implementing here, kind of give quick updates as to how things were going there. If there aren't specific folks who want to join the queue to talk about any of these particular PRs, are there any folks? who are currently or have recently been working on implementing that we'd want to shine in. and we benchmark them? I don't think the changes recent are likely to meaningfully affect what kind of the simulations and analysis. That being said, you know, I think more simulation and analysis. I don't think that would be bad. I think it's been looked at a fair amount at this point. But I don't really expect now that these changes are like probably even likely to occur in any of the test cases that you would typically test. but you were typically test, right? Yeah, okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else want to chime in or shall we? Ingram? Yeah, thanks for the update. And I wonder when I left to review this draft, I thought that there was some external. external publication around the testing of BBR. Some results look good, some results looked like a room from improvement. Did you have time to look at it or? I don't remember the link to it anymore, but... I don't think... I know what you're referencing. I can't remember off the top of my head. I don't know if Neil Adrys have heard around and remember. I apologize. I'll try to dig it up and see. to dig it up as you for file. Thank you. Yeah, can you guys hear me? Hello? Yes, we can hear you? Yeah, I believe there was a paper that he might be referencing that was called something like Promises and Potential of BBRB3. And it does discuss the, I think, the main interesting part was discussing the coexistence, sorry, coexistence between BBRV3 and cubic and comparing it to the coexistence properties of BBRV1 and B2. And, you know, we are aware that the coexistence properties are not as good as we would like, and in some cases they can be slightly worse than BBRB2. worse than BBR B2 due to the nature of the bug fixes in between B2 and V3. We are, you know, it's something we continue to do R&D work on on the algorithm. And we're open to suggestions from the community. Yeah, I think that's a sort of quick summary. I was actually wondering about an implementation experience with the probe-up changes that happened probably like a year and a half or two years ago. Where like the probe up phase mimics the startup phase exit instead of like some other logic. I think like an interesting change. I want to some extent we can actually do the same kind of thing, you know, the places, like between drain and probe down, to other some other issues that are like being talked about in various places. But again, like any implementation experience that you can share on probe up. I actually think Neil might have the best data on that on the probe down and kind of combining those two phases. Yes, the authors have discussed that a few times. And I think our inclination was we have a fair amount of shipping data and experience with something that looks like what's in the draft today and, you know, trying to make the algorithm simpler. It's like the pro-neconum. One is like, yes, conceptually it's like actually quite a bit nicer. And the same thing for Prova, but on the other hand, it's like how, how much data do we need to like be comfortable that those like algorithmic simplifications are like safe in whatever ways we want to define safe. But I think, yeah. Yeah. Oh. Yeah, in terms of implementation experience with the newer probe up, it, that is the code that you see, or the algorithm that you see in the draft and the code that you see in the TCP, BBRV3 code on GitHub is what we are using at Google for, at Google for both internal and public internet. WAN TCP traffic. So we have a fair amount of experience with it and think it performs pretty well, but are always open to hearing people's test results or analysis results if folks are seeing issues. Is that helpful, Antonio? Did you have another kind of perspective that you were hoping for? That's good. That's good. I just want to actually, like, get the discussion somewhat starting some of those things. I haven't looked at the kernel implementation. I have to get multiple quick implementations, and they vary in what they actually end up doing here. You're trying to figure out what's actually better, and like, how different are they? I see. Yeah, I haven't looked at other implementations, so I don't know what variations people are trying. trying, but if someone wants to summarize those on the mailing list or in a GitHub issue, we can, you know, we can discuss our thoughts on the various twists that people are experimenting with. Hi, last egg at Mozilla. So I don't have a specific comment, I would just want to thank everybody for keep pushing on BBR. keep pushing on BBR. We don't really have started an implementation, and I'm still sort of personally hesitating to commit at this point, but it's clear that it's getting better and it's getting to the point where we have a document that you can just implement and be reasonably sure that you're not going to sort of shoot yourself on a foot, so that's great. So we're looking with interest and don't take silence for no interest. Thank you. Okay, I think that's it for me, unless the chair has one to have anything to say. Thank you very much. I think that sounds like we're in pretty good shape. As we look at some of our, you know, evidence of safety and things like that, obviously the fairly large deployment that currently exists is pretty good evidence. But we'll kind of work through that with the rest of the working group as we start. as we start to try to converge on closing down the remaining issues and stuff. But thank you very much for all of the great progress here. All right. I believe that brings us to Inkmacher. Thanks. You hear me well? Yes, we can. Yeah, thanks. This is an update of the screen version 2 algorithm since the last ITF. Now it's in version of the CF7 and it's me, Magnus and Miria are authors of this draft. I guess we can take the next step and next slide here, please. Or should I forward myself? Sorry. Yeah, and the basic function with the screen is that you have a next slide here, please. that you have a network congestion and transmission control. And on top of that, you have a media rate control. And these are implemented in a draft in like, you need to have both in order to make it work well. And the network congestion controller has both a packet pacing and you have a window base. So we go between being a window limited and kind of rate based on the packet pacing rate in the adequate demand. And the thing with the screen here is that you have, instead of having congestion window, that limits, it's a hard limit on how much many bytes in flight that you can have. It's like typical, for instance, TCP algorithms. You have the ability to make it go beyond the reference window in this case, which is like a congestion window, but it's called reference windows to avoid confusion. And this avoids that you get an unnecessary standard queue of large video frames that can occur occasionally. Not just I frames, but also other black P frames that can be unusually large for the moment. And what is new in this latest draft is that you may make this overhead adaptive, depending on if you're in congestive state or if you are in uncontested state. And the reference window increases a bit like normal TCP arena for instance. You have an additive increase, multiple degrees, in some sense. And if you are, there is some limit, it mimics TCP cubic in some sense. If you are close to the last known maximum reference window here, you can limit growth. And if you are, if it's long since you are contested, you can end up in a state of a multiplicative increase as well. So you can ramp up faster to a free capacity. And what is new in the version 2 is you have additional restriction when you are congested also to avoid, you get the large variation in reference window and Q device. More on that later on. And the reaction to congestion is a combination of if it's like packet loss, ECN mark or RELFRS congestion marking, and also if you get the key delay increase. Packet pacing is typically used and then you normally pace at 150% to the target speed rate. And that can actually be increased if you are in an uncongested state. For the media rate control, you have that the objective of this media rate control is just to maintain just about enough data to feel the available capacity. And this actually pose a bit of a challenge because you will end up, you often switch between a rate limited and a congestion limited state, if you're a condescending state, the network congested to the situation. So you want to avoid that you feel that you feel the data unit huge. in this case or RTPQ for that matter with unnecessary data because then you increase your end-to-end delay. And the target bitrate is typically quite simple to implement, but there are some extra things to avoid that the queue delay, the network or the center queue delay grows too much. And challenging part is the real-life media encode is a kind of a slow rate control. a slow rate control loop. And also one thing is that you have large eye frames at each group of pictures in total that they can that it can be much larger than nominal frame size. And for that matter, things like gradual decoder refresh is highly recommended for these purpose applications. And sometimes the media rate is not exactly like according to target rate, not even on an average perspective. So that's just things like you need to address. And one thing with the media rate control is that if the send queue grows too much, like you get more than 100 milliseconds worth of media data in the queue, then you can, it can actually discard the frame because then that data is already useless for the receiving endpoint and then you issue a new full your request instead. And what is new is that there are some additional methods to avoid that you get the excessive data unit queue build up on the center side. So. Oh, sorry, it's a bit slow here. And what is new here is that there is a new metric called two delayed deviation, a normalized Q-day delay deviation. A normalized Q-day delay delay. that actually tries to detect when Q build up starts. And that applies mainly when it's not the L4S capable in network. And it can get variations in the Q delay because you always try to seek capacity. And that is used for two purposes. One is to get this adaptive reference window overhead and also to adaptively restrict how much reference with the growth. And it helps to reduce the rate variations and Q delay when you are not L4S capable. And in some cases when LFRS market thresholds may be high. Because we don't have full control how the network endpoints implement L4S. You can occasionally have high thresholds and or may not. Ideally, they should be just to ensure high link throughput but avoid excessive Q delay in the network. And there are also in cases where you have large and frequency variations and link capacity, which might apply, for instance, for 5G access, if you're in a highly varying wireless link environment. And the adaptive reference window overhead, it restricts the bias in flight when you're congested. And that is to avoid that you flood and down. streams queue with data and get a lot of congestion marking returned, which might lead to a large rate of variations. And it also allows the vital flight to exceed reference window more when you're uncongested. And that gives a reduced end-to-end delay. And it's a beneficial view when you are not congested. And for video applications, for instance, it's quite likely that, for instance, for instance, in a 5G environment that you're quite often uncongested and then you don't want to delay the media frames unnecessarily much. And one example is if you, for some reason, you use virtual Q base, Q LFRS working, and you start to mark packets before the network is congested, or just below the congestion point. And also this reference within the growth is, reduce when a queue delay is a break when you're close to congestion and it reduces the cue delay. And on top of that, there are some adaptive adjustment of this target rate to avoid that you build up an excessive cues on the sender side. And it addresses both if you have a mismatch between the target and actual bit rate, that it can happen in some cases, that you actually get the higher bitrate from the media rate. bit rates from the media encoders and you actually ask for it can happen in some cases. And in some cases you saw the sluggish rate control that the output bitrate can lag behind by a couple of 100 milliseconds. And that addresses that as well and it pushes, pushes down the target bitrate a bit to accommodate for that. And also in the draft there is some description how to fix issues with clock drift that you might get, if, because also the screen algorithm that is the way the delay based congestion control actually compares the timestamps of the sender and the receiver for its function. And let's see. Some additional improvements that are likely to happen is that this Q delay dev norm can likely be improved. And currently we have issues where you have a high non-conduester related jitter. That can happen, for instance, for 5G access, and occasionally also for Wi-Fi. And we need to fix that to try to discriminate between non-conduester related delay jitter and actual congestion delay jitter. And also we have the clock drift that we need to address. And for instance, for Wi-Fi, you can occasionally have large gaps in transmission. in transmissions and that can give very extreme delay, Q delay outliers. And we have people that Google are trying to fix this because they see that in experiments with the scream algorithm. And also they are trying to find alternative ways to fix the computers congestion metrics here. An additional thing is that instead of having this pacing gain as a function between the target beat and the max bit rate, we actually try to use it, this congestion matrix instead to simplify the algorithm. And finally, there are probably some additional improvements. Albaid, there will probably be small improvements based on the pending experiments with the LForest and scream implementation in Webbilt. implementation in WebRTC that is upcoming hopefully soon. And for those who want to try it out in more simple way, there is a web implementation by the Google WebRTC team that you can get from the latest Chrome Canary builds. And you need to enable it on the command line still. And also you can look at the internals and there are some, a lot of metrics actually for the screen behaves and things like frame rate and stuff. And how the theater buffer grows and shrinks when you switch on and off LFELFR S. And for the bleeding edge pans and I haven't tried it out, you can actually get the use the Libyan Bay Bar to see. BOR2C and implement it somehow. And there's also a chat group, LFREST in WebBORC for those interested. And I think as last, as before, the last ECHF meeting and about having this as a working group item and in order to in the long run get it a new RFC that replaces RFC, RFC, which is pretty outdated by now. out data by now. And there was one argument that we only should deal with a network congestion control. If I remember it correctly, that we should deal with network congestion control and not the media rate control in this case. But my experience is so far is that you need to address both because you have a, mainly because you end up, you are alternative in a rate limited and congestion limited state when you try to keep the target speed rate just about at the right level. And it requires some interaction between the network congestion control and the media rate control. And you have had a lot of evaluation in a 5GL 4S product. And there are remote control cord EMOS and there are some trial test implementations in WayBort DC. So I believe there is enough buzz around this algorithm. to make it a working group vitamin. There are some minor changes in the algorithm, but the core part of the algorithm has been stable for quite a while now. Most of the changes are actually based on because of the implementation of WabRTC where I've seen some issues that need to be fixed. So I believe that was, yeah, that was all I had. Comments, welcome. I guess. Can folks hear me? All right, now let's do I go first. But then I will have some questions. This is Stuart Cheshire from Apple. I just have a question. I think it was on slide two. You made a comment in passing, and I just wanted to get a bit more clarification. The slide says send aside queue can be discarded if too large. And while you're talking about that, the way you described it is it's common for video systems to decide that if it's too late to display a frame, you may as well throw the packets away. And superficially, that makes sense. If you've got uncompressed frames of video one frame at a time and it's too late, then you throw it away. But as you correctly pointed out, if you have an I-frame followed by a series of P-frames, which are each relative to the previous one, just because a frame is too late to display doesn't mean you don't need it because you still need it to construct the frame that comes next and next and next and next. And if you throw it away because you think you don't want it, you've then destroyed your whole deprocessing pipeline and you've got to start again with a new eye frame. So for the sake of one packet that would have been a millisecond late, you throw it away and have to send a thousand packets to recover the self-inflicted damage. What I was not clear is whether you were describing a mistake that is bad and people shouldn't be doing or whether you were describing something that you think is good and somehow needs to be accommodated. I believe it's based on actually what kind of practical experience that is needless to try to transmit an old video friend. But you're right that you can, if you have a if you have a long time before the next group of pictures and it's a pretty bad decisions in some cases. So let me sort of ask the question then. So I fully understand that you observe this. What I'm trying to find is are you endorsing it or are you pointing out a bad idea that people should stop doing? I believe it's um in the In the algorithm, there is an option to actually discard a frames and it's not documented in the detail how to do it. But I believe it, as you said, it could be a bad idea in some case or the good idea in some case. Maybe need to clarify it in the draft and as you say that. Yes, let's clarify because it was not clear from what you were saying, whether you were saying something descriptive that was merely an observation or whether you so you're being prescriptive, which is you should be throwing away data that you need, which seems like bad advice. Yeah, my other quote comments, I think on the next slide, you had some boxes with an arrow with the UDP socket giving feedback. Yeah, I hear. That is extreme wishful thinking. That's why I have a draft called source buffer management saying that you should get feedback from the the UDP socket telling you to slow down. So again, I think that's aspirational more than reality. We need that feedback, but it does not exist. Yeah, now, originally it was RTCP feedback, but as we generalized, it was to any kind of a transport protocol, like Quake, for instance, and I removed it to feedback. would it be X-Frame's RTCPA feedback. Right, so to be clear, the feedback you're talking about is generated by the logic of the congestion control algorithm itself. It is not coming from the UDP socket. Yeah, there's a lot of computations happening entirely inside that gray box. Yeah, not outside input to it. Yeah, it's a bit of sloppy figure. I would clarify that. Okay, thanks. So I have a couple questions, but first of all, thank you, Ingemar, for bringing this draft back and continuing to refine it. We greatly appreciate it. I also love to see WebRTC implementation in Chrome. Now remind me, we have an Erickson implementation, and we have a Chrome implementation now, correct? Am I missing any other implementations that might exist? criteria and CCWG that I believe you touched upon in your presentation, but let's make it explicit. So one is empirical evidence of safety. And you spoke on various testing efforts going on and algorithm, the algorithm being well tried out. Do we have slides or any other artifacts that would give us any detail about the testing that has happened and the evidence of of safety that we saw. Didn't see it linked out from the slides, but would be interested in that. not published. That is a, yeah. And we have some form this remote control demos, remote control car deems we have some data and I probably can look some of that up and yeah, that's good. That's something I can. Yeah, thank you. Do you have plans to publish them? I need to look at it if it's possible to publish it though. But I believe the way Bort is E-testing, that should be possible to publish and when that is ready. Okay, great. Yeah. Sorry, and then just trying a time check here because we are still a little bit ahead of schedule, but I would like us to have enough time for all of our presentations. So the other CCWG adoption criterion is stated intent to deploy. And I believe you spoke on that as well, but can you summarize it briefly, please? I see that you have a Horald on them on the microphone. He can show him a bit of information on the Web BOTC implementation. And besides that way about this implementation, I am not aware of any other implementations or other like applications for that matter. Okay. And then the Erickson implementation, you said the 5G product is using it. Yeah. That is mainly running code that is available for anybody who wants to experiment with like a remote control car. And I believe for instance, we have had a German company way that implemented the Scream in their remote control rental car. Some of them are running in Las Vegas now. And we have some experiments in Germany by pending some approval from the government to deploy that. And they use the scream algorithm. Okay, Harald, did you want to speak on that or something related? So I really got up to make a few comments to Cheshire. But I can speak to deployment. We are running experiments on enabling on enabling L4S support. And our current congestion control algorithms do not consider the L4S signal. So that's why we're jumping on Scream. And if Scream proves to be good for the general case, it will be better for the L4S case. It will be better for the L4S case. So yes, we do in terms. So, yes, we do intend to push this into Lib WebRTC as the standard congestion control for WebRTC connections if the experiments prove to be correct. So we have intent. The two points to Stuart was that there are a couple of tricks you can do to decide what to throw away, including something that thinks that were going on. going on over in ABT Corps with algorithms and signals for saying, hey, I have this frame. You can now encode according to that frame so that things can be safe to skip. And the other one with the UDP socket feedback signal. In the Chrome implementation, the congestion control algorithm, lives in the renderer process, which is a bit far away from the network process. And there are some feedback signals coming from the steps between the congestion control algorithm and what the operating system thinks is the UDP socket. So there are feedback signals. It's just that, yeah, it's complicated. Does that answer the questions I was asked to speak to? So my comments about feedback was based on experience I had. I got in a silly argument with somebody telling me that UDP was faster than TCP, and they demonstrated this by running IPF. And it turns out that UDP can send 5 gigabits per second over a 1 gig Ethernet, whereas TCP could never never get more than a gigabit over the gigabit interface. And without naming names, the platform they were testing on, the platform they were testing on, sending to a UDP socket never returned an error. It never returned any kind of back pressure. It never set the cues full. It never returned D would block. It was just dev null. This, the UDP circuits could discount discard data as fast as you could generate it. And some residual amounts might make it out of the Ethernet port, but the rest of it was being deleted as fast as you could send it. So UDP sockets are a black hole for destroying packets. This is why I wrote the draft for source buffer management, which is that every layer, whether it's Wi-Fi, whether it's cellular, whether it's Ethernet, whether it's UDP. When the Q's full, tell the sender, stop the useful do not just be willing to throw data away because you've got a firehosa data being generated and a firehosa data going down the drain and then you've got a bunch of complicated algorithms trying to recover from this self-inflicted mess. And I hope I explain it fairly well in my source buffer management draft, but if anybody designed a serial port or a floppy disk control or a graphics card that lost data the way network interfaces do, they wouldn't keep their job and I think we need to fix this. All right, Steve Stewart. I think for our next steps here, we wanted to take a quick show of hands. So if you haven't joined the meetupo yet, now is your moment to dive for the QR code, the URL, your phone, whatever it looks like for you. And we're going to start by asking by asking we're going to talk through three things. So we're going to start by asking, do we have the time and the interest? Should we bring that up on? Do we have the time and the interest to work on things in the media congestion control area? Note that that doesn't mean that this is the only thing that we will work on in this area. And we've talked about this in past meetings as well, where folks indicated that there was generally some interest here. But we want to get a current read of the room. We'll give that a second for folks to register their input. All right. I see Zahed, you're in the queue. Did you have a comment you want to make about the poll? Yes, Jahed. I'm getting Dezabu because I think in the last time we actually asked the same question and I thought we had a consensus like, yeah, we have, we're interested in doing it. And that's why perhaps Inghamer came with all the different things. I think why you were asking the same question again, I guess. Or maybe I'm completely wrong. Yes, we have talked about doing work in the media congestion control area. One of the things that we're talking about here is do we think we have the time in the bandwidth to do so in this moment in time? We've closed out some things from prior meetings that we're currently outstanding. And so one of the reasons that we're asking again is because we think that there may be more bandwidth available than there was in the past. So folks who previously did not feel they had bandwidth might now feel that they do. Well, looking at it, it didn't change anything, but anyway, thanks for clever. All right. Our next question is about who's actually read the draft. So notice that this says a version, ideally a recent version, but we're not saying you have to have read the most recent 07 version, but have you read a version of this draft? Okay. All right. Oh, a couple more folks. Let's then move on to our last question at the moment, which is going to be, do we think that the working group should use this as a starting point? Or some work on on a screen V2 style thing. style thing. This is not to say that this is the only media conduction control that we will work on as a group, but this is one that we want to invest in, work on doing a bunch of the testing for. I know we've talked a lot about, you know, different ways that we qualify that a congestion control is safe for deployment. Is this one of those? All right, seeing a bunch of yes, seeing some no opinions, not seeing any hard nose right now. That's going to be our last question for this one. And we will obviously take a bunch of this to the list after we discuss offline to do formal adoption calls and things like that. All right. Thank you, Ingram. And next up, we have Kazuho to talk to us about rapid start-up about Condition Patrol. Let us here or here. So, hello, this is Kazuko, and I'll talk about rapid stop. Next please. Do you want to use the clicker? I can give you a slide control on the clicker? The clicker in the room will not work. Hold that thought for a moment. We'll get you all set up. Okay, then I'm just going to do your next slide. Thank you. Right, so I'll be talking about the issues that we face and what we do and the production excellent results and then cover considerations. Next please. Next please. So what is slow stuff? For CDN, slowstack is important because the majority of HTTP connections never in slow stuff. There are at least three. And so let me show it in an illustrious in the way. So if you look at the very left side at the bottom, as you can see, if we are using slow stat, there's moments of idle because pacing only happens for a way. only happens for a half of an RTP. So the other half of an RTP, the network becomes idle. And the second problem is that 2X growth is too slow. It can be faster as it can be as it can be seen in this example. And the third problem is that when both started in congestion, their behavior is very, very bumpy. The first problem is that the second recovery occurs too soon, because the reduction of the condition. window size is not enough. And the second sub problem is that Q is entirely drained and they filled up due to reducing ceiling by beta. The reduction is too sharp and it causes this bumpy behavior as well. So if you look at the blue line, that's the amount of data being delivered, you see two dips of the blue line. So this, that's how the delivery is delayed compared to... I think we're back. Thank you. So what are we doing with RAPID start? First, this is natural, but what we do full of RPD pacing in the first round clip? Then we do through X bar round clip increase until. until we see Q build up or until we hit the congestion. And then, once we hit the condition, we do a much more quick and smoother reduction of the condition window. So that the condition window becomes comparable to what you see during the condition avoidance. So let's go to the first point, full RTT pacing. And this is what the draft says now. To ensure that past QM behavior is observed rather than the center side bosomist, the sender should paste the packet's over full RTD using the current RTP estimate when first sense more than more data than classic flow start with pacing with pocket and this same window can do IW multiply by two assuming that because it is comparable same grade compared to slowstar paste slowstar because it I paste slow star paces pockets in half an R2 so we use two times our IW and then pays on the same rate and that gives us two times amount of space. the same data. And this might sound awkward, but it's actually what a careful resume does with its unvalicated space. So we are simply saying that we could do this using jump seven of two times side area using careful resume. The next thing we do is the rapid increase thing. So until we observe a Q buildup, we increase the condition window size by 3x per round trip rather than 2x. And The kind graph says that Q buildup should be measured like this. Like if the RTT flow, which is the smallest RTT observed in the most recent one now round trip, is at least 4 milliseconds greater than the RTT minimum, or if it's above 1.1 times RTT minimum, they call it a Q buildup and we refer to the 2X thing. Or if it's bigger, they could go to high start plus plus style, 1.2x 2x thing. So the idea, I mean, the algorithm can be different, but the basic idea is that the algorithm can stay compatible with rabbits high star plus plus, and we can use the same logic to observe the RTDs. And then decide whether we do use 3x, 2x, or 1.2x, 5x, which high thought plus says. Then, probably the most. Interesting thing is about how in conditions. So as I said earlier, slow stat is not very good at exiting the setup phase because it doesn't reuse the condition window very well. The problem that occurs, unless high stat plus plus kicks in is that by the time slow stat detects congestion, the condition window is already two times the full BDP. because the sender has used a full RTT for increasing the condition window. And that means that even if you use the congestion window using beta of 0.5, the condition window size still stays as well as the fluidity. And that triggers the next recovery period immediately because you'll see an immediate source. However, so in terms of correctness, what slow start should do is reduced by beta divided by to like 0.25 x. But just doing that is suboptimal. Because if you reduce the condition of the size to a fourth, then the center will remain silent for three-fourth of the R2t, and it completely drains the Q. So when we are, so it's clearly suboptimal when we are trying to send as much as possible as far as possible and have a such a silence period. And this problem actually becomes worse with rapid starts 3x, because in the worst case, you could overshoot by 3x. So instead of spending forces of an RTP being silent, you could spend five out of six RTCs being silent. And then the burstiness that happens after also becomes much more rapid. So it could induce pocket losses other than due to this bottleneck tube. So what are the desired properties of handling condition? One is that when you enter the recovery, the center should stop and delay in the Q somewhat so that there wouldn't be consecutive losses falling after. And when it exists the recovery, the condition window size should be comparable to what we get during the condition avoidance. And that is better multiplied by food beating. And the other, and the third issue, and the third property that's desirable is that once the same, the resume sending after the silence period, it should avoid vowsy behavior and it should send out of steady rate. These are the three properties that we need. So how do we achieve that? A rapid study uses three things. Upon entering recovery, we multiply serum by a factor called silence factor and then momentarily stops the sender from sending, assuming that the sender is sea wind limited. And then, and why that's happening, for each act being received, we reduce the congestion window by by its newly act multiplied by a factor and bytes nearly also multiplied by a factor. And that means that once the sending resumes, the sending ratio becomes fixed, assuming that loss ratio during recovery is uniform. because they are because the in-flight is reduced by bides newly act multiplied by 1 and by its newly act multiplied 1 so it becomes a rate of sending and these three factors silence factor act factor loss factor are chosen so that in the case of worst overshoot of through it the sender remains silent for no longer than during condition avoiders and that upon exiting existing recovery, the congestion window lands at Betamal slide by Byte's Act in recovery. And I'm assuming that all the losses are due to photo like QOBA flow, bytes in recovery would be equal to full BDP, so we get right at the correct point. And there are these numbers, the derivation process is being explained in the appendix, but they look like this. I mean, this beta is 0.5, it's like 5 out of 6, So one out of three or something like that, and if there is 0.70, it's like this. So let me explain in the illustrative way. This is how we handle congestion. If we look at the left-hand side one, it's the 3x over suitcase. So by the time 0.00 is when the sender notices the congestion. At that point, 7 is 3xxx So we reduce the condition window by one out of six and the blue line dips a bit. And then assuming that the loss ratio during the recovery period is useful, it goes down straight until the early in the recovery period. And while in flight goes a bit sharper to the bottom because in flight is simply a sum of arc by and low spite and we converge at exact moment where the RTP has 0.5 RTT has been spent. So this is the expected behavior. And using the same constant, if we do a 2X overshoot, it looks like this. So the silence period becomes a bit shorter because the blue line and the red line converges a bit earlier, but we still have enough time to drain the Q. And then the same regimes at the correct rate. And in either the case, the ceiling upon exiting this recovery period is 0.5 times the throughout full BDP, as showing this chart. And this is the similar chart for the beta being 0.7. And as you can see, both work exactly like the beta equals 0.5 case. And we also have our safeguress. We say that the sensor should not really see on beyond pre-recovery soon multiplied by beta divided by 3 and the rationale is that assuming that all losses are due to botanic overflow the maximum loss ratio is uh 3x or three uh three two out of three so therefore we should only reduce uh we should only assume that full bdp is as small as platform and we also say that the same that may stop reducing below beta multiplied by iW. And the rationale is that on terribly slow path, we want to play on power its slower. So we'll go below beta multiplied by iW. So let's go back to the illustration that I gave as the first step. So this is when rapid, what happens when we run rapid start on a simulator. As you can see, the full RTT pacing eliminates the moments of networking idle. And then 3x growth gives us of much faster growth. And as you can see, the condition, upon congestion, the congestion window lands at the current value and we now only have one recovery event compared to having two. And so the downside is that the blue line, the growth of blue line takes longer because it takes longer to fix losses because we've sent three X amount of data. So instead of the traditional slow start case, that takes one, a two RTP to fix the losses, it now takes, context three RTPs. So this is the trade of that we have, I mean, versus only having one only recovery event versus having a bigger one. And as you can see, there's no longer the dip of excessive draining and falls by burst. We can safely at the correct ascending rate. So let's go to the production results. Quick time check. I noticed there's a bunch of slides left and you have about two minutes. Oh, I see. Results are fantastic. We love seeing results. So don't stop with the results. Okay. So this is TTLB reduction in global. So this is about objects, about 200 kilobytes. And globally, we see 14.7% TTLB reduction. And oh, and for what's what the blue line is only doing the first round thing. And the yellow line is only doing the rapid increase thing. And the red line is doing both. So as you can see, doing both provides us the best outcome. And we've also separated this results to per book across multiple continents. Under TDB, LV reductions like from 10.8% to 21.5, which is great. And if you look at different object size bins, the smallest growth is when the objects are the largest, and it's like 10.6% for 6, 1.6 megabyte to 3.2 megabyte. And for the smaller size bins, it's the growth is much, uh, the reduction is much bigger. And we get our 14.9% of reduction. And target loss ratios, as you can see, uh, with rapid stats, uh, the packet loss ratio increases at the average of P 50, but, but it's not that thing. And if you look at P99, it's almost comparable to when you use, I mean, I mean, the difference between slow start and rapids, starts become slower, which indicates that when the bottle neck, when the path is very slow, we are not that aggressive compared to slow start. And this is also purple data. And if you look at P99, slow start is doing 19.60% packet loss, whereas rapid start is being 21.65. So it's, the difference is even smaller. To summarize the production experiment outcome, we are seeing these results and we are pretty happy with what we're having now. So considerations regarding ECA, there could be considerations, but our understanding is that because ECN reduces the possibility of having losses, the penalty of having a larger recovery period gets eliminated. So rapid start becomes more, it becomes more, more reliable when ECN is being available. So it's a win. And regarding TCP, honestly, I personally don't know how to do it because in Quake, there's the concept of Bites Nuri Act and Bites NUILS per each act, but TCP might not have it. So it will be up to each TCP stuff to do whatever. So to summarize, as I said, rapid stuff consists of three things, full RTT pacing, 3X growth until Q build up, and then the smoother the convergence of condition windows. And we are seeing struggled strong production results as being provided. So the next steps would be like, I love to hear what you think. And it'd be also great if the working group could adapt this. But what's what our minimum objective is to make sure that the transport community is aware that a growth rate above 2X is possible and we'll be doing that. And that, therefore, please don't implement our flow control under the assumption that the thing that will only in respect to Esperant. Thank you. Thank you. Well, folks are hopping in the queue. We're going to also put up our same three questions for this one. Those are some impressive results. So we'll let people talk through some of the queue stuff. But let's get the, and we've got the first poll question up as well. So same same questions as before. Again, this is not necessarily the only work. that the group will ever do on slow start. This is a, is this a thing that is interesting? I know we've had a couple of other slow start and slow start adjacent proposals in the last couple of meetings. So as we've been looking at the group having more bandwidth, this is the question here. And then we'll go from there. First up in the queue, we have Martin Duke. Martin Duke, Google. Google, I was very impressed with the way you systematically thought about your goals in doing this and what the end state should be. I thought that was very illuminating instead of just sort of random. So frequently, just like, we just want to be faster and better. And that was very specific on what you wanted. And that was great. The results are good. I guess what I would like to see is maybe I missed it. Did you make any assessment of how this interacts with other Kajc controls that are sharing the same bottleneck? do it because this is a startup algorithm and basically fairness is more about during the consciousness space, but one thing that can be said is that because we converge much more faster to the correct state that should be gained during conscious avoidance space. Rapid start is, I mean, on blast, well, maybe as good as well, even though it does tricks. Okay, I think it would be interesting to at least see some simulations of like, let's just say that like a slow start and a rapid start happens simultaneously, you know, what does it look like? And the standard does not that it's like completely fair, we discovered that long time ago, but it would be interested at least understand what that looks like. Thanks. All right, let's close out this poll and put the next one. Well, we hear from the rest of the queue. next to you of Antonia. Yeah, I put some questions for you on the list, but the one I kind of want to actually talk a bit more here is actually related to 3x growth. I think as you actually put in presentation, it's very likely for you to actually overshoot by 3x in the same way that we used to overshoot as 2x normally. Is there anything we can actually do to detect how much balance actually left in a more systematic way to actually like try to actually not early, no exit late from the 3x phase. I think you're muted. Right. So we already have high stuff. Now that can be used to detect Q buildup. And Honestly, I'm not sure of the best answer for detecting Q buildup. So what we are doing here is, well, let's just assume that high star plus plus has the correct value and we adopted it and it's working. That's our thing. So it's only a recommendation. So we could just turn that value as we like and see how it goes. Thank you. Yoshi Nishida from APP. So I have one TCP related question. So TCP has an RFC 667, which calculate outstanding packet and the loss packet by using SACBRAC. And so are you talking about 6675 is not good enough for you or you are just talking about TCP implementation that doesn't support 6675. Oh, I think you are muted. Thank you. Honestly, I don't have experience with TCP. All I'm saying is that quick provides these per arc, uh, Bersak matrix, and that's fine for rapid start. I don't know about TCP. That's what I'm all saying. Maybe we need some discussion about offline. And then also, why I have one more question. So let's say you have BBR implementation, and then let's say you tune BBR implementation to use a little aggressive startup game and the real aggressive brain pacing gain. And that this achieves your goal, or you still need rapid start? So it's, it's, I probably say that the, I mean, we have three elements in rapid start. And if you could accomplish those three, um, properties inside Bia, then it'll be qualified. Like full RGGGG pacing in the first round trip and then the three X, uh, probosclerosis three X thing, and then the correct reduction of the position in the size, well, then I just was like, understand. BBR can do similar job, one. Well, I'm not sure if I can be confident enough to answer that question. Sorry. All right, next up we have Neil. We also have our final poll question up. So make sure you echo it down. All right, Neil. Yeah, yeah, thanks for this nice presentation with some of interesting ideas. I had a couple points and questions. There was a question about whether TCP has the data points that are required for this, and I would say that it does. So Linux TCP, for example, does calculate those two quantities that you're mentioning, the number of packets delivered, the number of packets lost on the React. So I think, you know, I think this would be something that can be easily adapted to TCP. There was a So one slide early on, I think that maybe had a typo where I was missing a plus character, I think, when it was saying how the sea wind was adjusted. I think maybe it was intended to say C wind plus equals. Like the increment to sea wind is given by the value that's calculated. That may be just like a typo. One thought on the experiment, it would be nice if the experiment slides could sort of document sort of document what buffer depth was used for those diagrams. Because I think the results might differ quite a bit depending on how deep the bottleneck buffer is. Since they're, like, for example, there are some calculations that I think we're setting the C-O-N based on a multiplicative factor times how much data was delivered and how much data was delivered could be quite a bit different depending on the buffer size, I would think. And then I share Yoshifumi's interest in seeing what it would mean to adopt these ideas to BBR. It does seem like there's an overlap in this sort of spirit and in some of the mechanisms in terms of trying to be smoother in pacing and trying to, when you realize the pipe is full, you kind of want to pull the amount of inflate data down to what the algorithm estimates is a reason. idea, a reasonable level. And so it does seem like there's some interesting overlap. And it might be, it might be something where maybe there, this algorithm could have different, but similar instantiations for loss-based congestion control versus, say, something like BBR. But anyway, thank you so much for the presentation. Thank you. So regarding the congestion window size adjustment, yes. Yes, we subtract them based on the BISAC and vice loss. And regarding a second point about the simulation, it's only for the illustriative purposes and I skip, but if I said, I mean, the bottleneck Q depth was equal to the BDP, either BDP. And regarding your third point, I agree that, I mean, it would be great if BBR could add up something like this. And at the same time, I think that for lost bit, loss recovery based condition controllers, adapting rapid start, I would be a good idea. All right, thank you. We're quite tight on time, so Gory and Lars, if you don't mind making it quite quick. Thank you. Yeah, I was going to say thank you and echo again for bringing this here and looking at this. I was curious about your simulation or experimental set. look at a range of scenarios. Is there a lot more data that is somewhere linkable about the different scenarios for the path? All right. So we have per pop data and per object size bin data. So we can deep, we can deep dive into them if necessary. Yeah, it'd be good to see a ICCRG talk which goes into different bottleneck configurations and different traffic sharing. That would it's super good. Thank. Okay. Okay. Hi. Last decade, Mozilla. Quickly. So we have a pluggable slow start framework in the quick stack. And we have a student worker that has implemented to traditional one and I start. And I think search is next, and I'm trying to get him to implement rapid start as well, at which point we will be able to do AB testing and deployment and share some data, which brings me to the ask. So if you have metrics that you gather, gathered and you think they're useful, tell us. And we can maybe try to gather the same metrics so we can do apples to apples because we are not a CDN. So it might be quite interesting. But if other people who work on slow start or have an interest in slow start have metrics in mind that you would like to see telemetry on, let us know too and just email the list. It's the easiest. Thank you. That's great. Yes. Thank you. Please do send requests for metrics to the list. I can just leave it. It's fine. Also, I noticed there were a couple of people who said no, we don't think the working group should adopt. So in lieu of having working group time to talk about that, if anybody said no and would like to explain why, please send a note to the list as well. And we can look at that there. Thank you so much. Next up, we have Christian. Good evening or afternoon, I don't know. So I did a very short presentation at the last meeting. And the shares have invited me to do a more exciting today's of the work I have been doing on construction control. which is basically to do an algorithm that work well with video, but work well with general traffic in general, with stable throughput, no buffer load, low delays, and works well, especially on the networks with a questionable level of services, like Wi-Fi networks that have large Jeter and things like that. My other goal is to keep it simple. So the first thing I did was to look at what are the congestion signal that we want to use. It's not the first thing I did is basically the result of looking at many experiments. And the first one that comes to mind is absolutely ECN. I mean for all the reason that people know why we like things like L4. It's basically because ESEAN is largely a true signal. I mean, if a router did mark the packet, that means that they, you should believe them because if you don't, they can also mark the checks sum of the packet and you're going to lose the packet. So there's no question that you are sharing your fate with these guys. So it's good. The problem is that it's not always there. The second signal that I was looking at in order to guarantee short delays was, of course, check the delays. And I worked on that starting last year. And the problem there is that you cannot trust delays. Because many of the interesting links that we see have variable RTTs or have high GD. have high jitter or both. And that means that if you try to use that essentially very variable signal as input into a controller, the controller ends up trying to do a mishmash or a filtering of the signal and it doesn't work very well. So instead we decide, I mean, the reaction was to not try to react too much on a on delays, but track the max RTT that we observe and use that to size the congestion windows to a size that is acceptable most of the time. We looked at packet loss, of course. And the first thing on packet loss is that you typically have two kinds of packet losses reported by your loss recovery. You have in classic algorithms loss reported on timers, and you have in modern algorithms, loss reported by observing the sequence of packet and reasoning that, hey, if a packet that arrived six, that was sent to six packet slots sooner later, is acknowledged, your packet is probably lost. And that gives us two very different signals. I mean, the signal. that are based on timers are essentially not reliable and if you use them, you have very often issue of spurious losses and things like that. And in fact, stacks like most quick stack implement the fact algorithm explicitly say that you should not react on the timers, on the PTOs. So we track the real losses. Also, we track not so much the individual loss as the loss rate. And the reason we track the loss rate is that the number of individual losses is going to increase considerably with the data rate of your connection. If you are sending many more packets, you are going on average to see many more individual losses. If you track the loss rate, that's basically fair accurate. across all the data rates and that gives you a much better control point. And the final data that we want to track, and that's based on the experience with BBR, is to track the data rate and use it for pacing. It's very easy to track the data rate wrong. We have had numerous discussions about how do you find out that the application was bandwidthly, limited, for example. We have also issues of JETER. The measurement of the data rate suffers from delay jitter at the two end of the packet windows that you use to measure the data rate. And it can be very noisy at times. We are basically doing the filtering of measurement that was pioneered by BBR. And also in the design, I try to not rely to rely as little as possible on estimation that the bandwidth was limited. So, yes. So the first design choice in C4 is to drag the max RTT and the data rate and use both to first set a window that's with the red line in my figure and set a pacing rate so that if you have a high GD situation, your transition continues through the JETA incident, and is not slowed by a congestion window, and then you can continue. The only way to do that is to implement pacing and use pacing as a control, because obviously if you loosen the window control, you have to replace it by something, and that error spacing is what you want to do. In the graph, you can see that most of the points, these are the individual acknowledgement and the biting flight at the time of the acknowledgement. In the case of Jeter, we see that the biting flies at the time of the range is large. Most of it is small and we can have something stable with this kind of control. So C4 is designed to be very simple. We have an initial stage which is basically startup. You have a recovery stage that comes after either congestion or a probing of bandwidth. The idea being that if you probe, you will only know the result of your probing after 1RTT when you receive the acknowledgement of the packet that you did send. And so in that recovery stage, we'll be waiting for all the acknowledgement coming from the previous period, which will be an initial period or a pushing period. And measuring the bandwidth, measuring the data rate based on these traffic, but also stabilizing the amount of byte-in flights so that we don't build big queues. Then we get a cruising period in the time. which we are working at the nominal rate. It's very similar to BBRV1. And we use that to assess the max RTT and to detect congestion. If we detect congestion when we are working at the nominal rate, we know that the nominal rate is too high and we know that we have to reduce it. If we detect an increase RTT at the nominal rate, while not otherwise finesse, congestion is probably that we have experienced Jeter and we use that to assess the max RTT. And then after another of cruising phase, we go in a pushing phase. It will send at higher than the maximum rate to see how much goes through and to see how we can evolve the data rate. Now, a little discussion on how much you shall push during a pushing rate. I know that Neil has written a lot about that. Basically, what you want is multiply your centered by some coefficient alpha and grow that way. The question is how do you find that coefficient? How do you find how much do you increase? For example, you can say, pick than data out of thin air, like 25%, or you can say, hey, let's look at what Reno does, and you do the equivalent, etc. The big question is that if you put it too small, you are going to react very slowly to an increase of bandwidth and you will not benefit from the increase of bandwidth because you will not detect it. If you put it too big, you are going to build cues. that's very, very visible if you are doing L4S. L4S is doing the ECN equivalent of shallow buffers. So if you increase too much when the network is actually doesn't have free capacity, this shallow triggering of an ECN mark will immediately send you back. And since it takes you a full RTT to notice that, you might be building a queue, you might be penalized by the controller. So our design will say, okay, most of the time we'll push at a very slow rate. Like the standard rate will be 116 of the data rate, I mean we add 116 to the data rate. data rate. And we do that after, I mean, for RTDs of cruising, then if we observe that we are actually increasing the bandwidth, then we accelerate. We go to the next pushing phase sooner, and we increase at a higher rate. And if that still work, we go another time like that. And if that still works, we go back to initial to start up to reassess the bandwidth. On the contrary, if we don't see the data rate increasing during that probe, then we move back to the probe level 1, or if we add ECN detecting congestion to probe level 0. And that allows us to stabilize, to do the the combination of in most cases not pushing too much and not causing delay, but if the bandwidth does increase, finding out. We see what does and we have simulations like that. We are doing our testing with a lot of a simulator which is built on the Pico Quick version of Quick. That's what We have been using that for a long time for testing the implementation. Each connection generates a Q-log. We have a Python script that basically process the Q-log and extracts the byte per second that we are using for the pacing, the RTT, and the bytes in flight, and the congestion window. What you see there is that for this multimedia connection, we are not saturating the window except during the peaks of media bandwidth. It's a long connection. It's supposed to last 20 seconds. So you see lots of peaks of bandwidth. And during those peaks, the bite and flight increase a little. The data rate doesn't go down. go down, so we don't see the drift down of the data rate that we see that we fear in many things, in many algorithms. And the RTT remains pretty much at the mean RTT. And yeah, I mean, I put myself a reminder there. This big bomb there in the C-win is linked to the way we do the slow start. and it should be improved and I will work on that next. Second example, this is a short connection, not the same time scale. It's using ECN and basically we see ECN at work. I mean, they are, we very quickly, we use, I mean, the window and the data rate, the direct is simple, is very stable. We feel these little peaks during the probing periods there. And we get a very low delay and we get a very good usage of the link. So it works well, but that's ECN. Logically, everybody should be working well with ECN. And we have one test that we do for testing the Cascade in which we have a link that starts at a small bandwidth and a few seconds into the connection. into the connection, the bandwidth jumps. So it goes from, in that particular simulation, it goes from 5 megabits per second to 10. And what we see is that this cascade stuff that we did actually works. In that particular simulation, it went all the way into the initial thing, which is maybe a bit too aggressive. We might want to fix that. But basically, in less than a second, and a second, there we have noticed the increase of the bandwidth and we are back at the new bandwidth. So that's a cascade working well. But then if you listen, you will see that what we are doing is effectively multiplicative increase. I mean, taking the increase as a proportion of your data rate is a multiplicative increase. and it is not quite as fair as doing the additive increase of the reno. However, it has one big property that we like is that it allows scaling on a wide range of fruit. So the reason we know is very fair is because they slow down a lot when the bandwomen increases. When the data rate increase, they don't go up so fast. And that creates this famous asymptotic algorithm, assentitic fairness, etc. Multiplicative increase, multiple decrease doesn't do that. And in fact, if you have MEMD, your condition will typically not converge. It will typically not converge. It is a, it, it, it will be a point where you depend on the initial conditions. So if you look at the graph of things like that, and there are many of them in the literature, if you do MEMD, you end up with graphs in which you're sharing between multiple collections is showing like some kind of random work that is mostly dependent on the initial conditions. conditions. That's not good. So we decided to fix that. And the way we fix that is by having what we call a sensitivity curve. So basically, in the absence of congestion, we increase the rate by your coefficient alpha. In the presence of congestion, we've already decreased the red by coefficient beta. In pure MIMD, these beta alpha constants that don't depend on the data rate. What we do there is that we modulate that coefficient better by introducing a sensitivity coefficient, which is itself a functional data rate. I mean, we implement a very, very simple curve for now. But the scale there goes from 100 kilobits to a gigabit to a gigabit. gigabit and the sensitivity increase, the result is that a connection which is using little bandwidth will slow down, will not go back so much in case of congestion as a congestion that is already using a lot of bandwidth. And so that introduce a non-linearity factor in the congestion control and that results in stability. I mean, these are the same kind of graph. In that case, we see a competition between C4 and BBRV2. And we see the BBRV2 is a connection in green here. So it starts later. There is actually a first common advantage in these things because the initial condition for the guy was the C4 connection are much better. They have been tuned for the empty network. network, but because of the curve, we will see C4 going down and eventually getting to pretty much a fair sharing with BBR. The RTT does peak and the reason it peaks is because the fairness, the fairness only happens when the bandwidth decreases, it only decrease based on congestion control, on congestion events. And in that particular setup, the only congestion events are when the network gets saturated. But we can fix that, like by using ECN, for example. In the case of cubic, it's not quite a lot. it's not quite as fair, and cubic only get about one third of the bandwidth. And C4 gets two-thirds in that particular setup. I mean, it does depend on the data rate. But, I mean, at least it's not starving. We are good. And then if we do C4 versus C4, we have an almost perfect equilibrium. same data rate for the two connections. But again, we are at a very high network occupation with IQs. I mean, on the other hand, if we do introduce ECN in the mix, then the sharing remains mostly fair, and the delays tend to go down. go down. I mean, they never go more than about one half of the RTT, of the mean RTT. It might get better if I had a better implementation of L4S. I did one for my simulation. It's not perfect, but we'll work on it. So, I mean, I did not, I did not, I don't want to take all the time in this session presenting my stuff. I want to give you some time for having discussions. I try to present our big items. I mean, the congestion signals that I want to use, the general algorithm, the use of a sensitivity curve, the use of pacing in order to maintain the Q at a horizontal size. It's still a work in progress. We are mostly testing with simulation. I have a draft testing all the simulations that we are doing. We have to do better in some cases, like the management of congestion during probe. I mean, we have to, we have a slightly unfair design right now is that the connection with doing probing is say, hey, I am working at 2 megabrid per second, let's see if I can use 3 for 1RTT. It does that, and after 1RT, it says, oops, never mind, and it goes unchanged. But when doing that, it has created a peak of traffic in the network, and that peak of traffic has impacted all the other connections. So, again, I inherited that from BBRV1, but it probably needs to be fixed a little bit. There must be a cost of doing a probe, because if there is no cost, I mean, we have less stability. We have a big dealer spike in the initial phase, and I will need to fix that. And we have also what we observe is some kind of bandwidth drift in case of competition. In case of competition, each of the competing connections tend to believe that the other one is, that the delay is increasing because of the other one, and we get the delay getting up. The reason we get the delay getting up is that in most, is that And bandwidth evaluation is imperfect. It is inherently noisy, so you will end up with some measurements that are higher than the actual capacity. And that's what causes the drift of bandwidth. So that's also something on which I want to work. There are ideas on how to do that. And better simulations. I mean, I got feedback. feedback and I will use the feedback, I mean, publish more data for sort of test the simulator. So that's pretty much it. We have a draft with the spec. The spec is fairly short. We have a big paper explaining all the stuff we tried. The reason I did that is because I wanted to have everything public, everything published, so that it could be referenced by anyone who wants. And we have another draft with all the test scenarios that we are doing. And of course, a GitHub depot with the specifications and the simulations. Thank you for your attention. I hope I did not abuse your time too much. All, thank you, Christian. Well, folks, hop in the queue with questions or comments. We also wanted to ask one quick poll question just to get a sense of who's writing the document. But thank you very much for giving us a deeper dive into how this goes. First up, I think we have Lairz. Hi, Christian. Lars-Degra of Mozilla. So I didn't make this comment. I'm going to make because we will represent it because I feel that that slow-style algorithm is reasonably simple compared to condition control. I think you really need to get a solid academic paper or two peer reviewed by the academic congestion control community before we can take this on in the working group. Because, you know, they're like decades of history, as you know. And I don't want us to, I don't think we're set up to do. do this. I think it really needs to be the academics. I need to review this first. Thanks. Yeah. I, uh, okay. The problem is that I have not been in the academic circles for like 40 years. So. Next up, Rios Suhas. Hi, this is Suhas from Cisco. I've been working with Christian to kind of get some real world data and experience. So we are trying to build a media quick stack within Cisco. And our plan is to kind of use C4 algorithm. Because one of the main problems that we saw with using existing algorithms is that under lossy Wi-Fi network conditions are where the Wi-Fi doesn't have have a loss, but it has a huge latency. And then all the data gets kind of sent to you, queued up. And those kind of behavior, we have seen a lot of problems with real-time audio and video calling. And when we're implementing mock stack, that's something where some of this work started. And our personal test and experiments within our stack, the results seems promising. And as Kristen said, along with the test simulator, eventually, once we get more into a mock deployment, we'll be able to share some data from the real experiment. Sure. Christian, this is Neil Cardwell, Google. Thanks for this, a very nice talk. I just had a couple of thoughts here. You mentioned some questions about the stability and convergence MIMD. Are you including BBR class algorithms in those concerns? Or do you mean some other flavor of MIMD? There was definitely the same problem happening with BBR V1. With the result of competition depending largely on the initial conditions. Interesting, yeah, if you could share... For the same reason. Okay, if you could share some examples maybe or point me to them on the mailing list, I'd be interested. Yeah, I just wanted to mention that, so the, that the traditional concerns that I'm aware of with MIMD, as, for example, in the Chew and Jane paper back in the late 80s, are for MIMD where the, you have a window or a rate that is adjusted purely algebraically with most, based on the, based on the radar window itself. I think a lot of the, and as far as I'm aware, of all of the problems of that are taken care of if you have a sort of BBR-style algorithm where the the multiplicative increases and decreases are based on the actual delivery rate of the flow. Because you have some nice properties there where flows with smaller rates, it's when they make a multiplicative increase, they see a larger proportional increase in their data. delivery rate for the same reason why it's it's easier for startups to grow by 2x per year than it is for very large companies. You know, it's easier to achieve multiplicative growth when you're when you're small. Anyway, so I just wanted to mention that. Yeah, we could have a discussion about that. Yes, measuring the bandwidth and tuning based on that, does remove one of the worst aspect is that the sum. the sum of the boundaries of all the competitors, if they all do that, the sum of the boundaries is unlikely to exceed the global capacity of the resource. However, the relative share of the competitors, I have not observed a drive to fairness similar to the one you described. I mean, it depends on tuning, it depends on things. You have to do things like random shaking of everything to do. everything to converge and things that nature. But yeah, it's a point that I want it. Basically, I wanted to not rely on chance. I wanted to rely on putting a spring in the specs, so the spring drives you towards fairness. You don't leave it to chance. All right. Thank you, Christian. And we have We have two remaining as time permits talks. It looks like time is likely to permit for only one of them. So we'll do a quick five minutes of the first one. Both of these and some of the C4 work we're doing as kind of a blended conversation between CCWG and ICCRG, which is not meeting this IATF. So I know we were just talking about that in the chat, but both of these talks are a little bit more in the ICCRG vein, and we will keep everybody updated as to how venues shift around. I believe ICCRG is likely to meet in 126, so we spend a lot of time with chairs together figuring out how to sort that out. Let's get started here. We've got about five minutes, so let's make it snappy there and keep all of our mic comments also very quick, and then we'll be all set. from Qinghua University. And actually, this is my first time to participate in the ITF meeting. So it's a great honor to present our work on the analysis for the adverse effects of view mobility on internet congestion control. Next slide, please. I pass side control to the clicker, but I can do it too. Okay, I guess clicker isn't working. Grab the bike. Oh, okay. So here is the outline. We will begin with why do Leo satellite networks or LSNs measure today? So that the transport relevance is clear from the beginning. Then the second question, what does Leo mobility do to the network paths, and what kinds of dynamics it exposes to endpoints? From there, I will try to answer, why can these changes mislead existing congestion control? And finally, which is also the main point of this talk, is what design directions should should we consider? Next slide, please. So let me first explain about the LSN architecture and its importance. LSNs connect users through a satellite terrestrial end-to-end path. For the up in direction, it spans user devices, satellite terminals, Leo satellites, ground stations, points of presence, and finally the terrestrial internet, and vice versa for the downing direction. Actually, in recent years, we have seen rapid growth in the development and deployment of LSN's tech star link as an example. It has reached 10 million subscribers till February of this year, which makes LSN behaviors increasingly relevant and important to transport. So the issue here is not only its importance, but also how transports should reason about pass whose behaviors are shaped by Leo mobility at Internet scale. Next slide, please. So what does Leo mobility actually do to network paths? Our main observation based on these, based on the measurements from our three vantage points, indicate that Leo mobility can cause network instabilities such as path change and radio rescheduling. And these changes appear at the endpoints as sharp shifts in available bandwidth, based on a baseline RTT drastically change, and unpredictable packet laws. Looking at the figures on the left, the path may move between different different ways. This has may move between different operating conditions rather than evolving within a single one. So this distinction matters because it motivates a more structured view of past behavior than a continuous time window. Next slide, please. So why these changes can mislead CCAs? At high level, most CCAs rely on interpreting signals, such as packet laws, as indicators of network states. While in LSS, there are mobility-driven past changes. For example, loss-based CCAs and delay-based CCAs, they may mistake non-c congestive laws and RTT changes for congestion. And for model-based algorithms like BBR version 1 and version 3, their historical bandwidth and RTT estimates may become still across changed conditions. So beyond misreaction, it is that mobility can change the very meaning of the signals which these average depend on. Next slide, please. So so far, we have seen that massive non-congestive network variations break the fundamental models or assumptions of existing CCAs. In order to mitigate this issue, one potential way we think is to identify and filter out Leo-induced non-congestive variations. So naturally, we ask, can we identify a pass-level signal that indicates when mobility-driven reconfration has pushed the connection across a pass boundary? Next slide. piece. Our answer is yes. And before introducing pass-based boundary or PPB, I would like to introduce what reconveration means. Starlink's profile shows that because the satellites are constantly moving, the network plans these connections on 15-second intervals. So we refer to PPB as points where mobility-driven reconvations shifts the connection into a new past condition. Both capacity and RTT can be fitted as a stephenyl. as a step function if we align the path evolution with a sequence of re-confirations. And inside a step, capacity and RTP changes are relatively mild and smooth. Next slide. These two figures are so important, so I just repeat them on this slide. Instead of treating the path as one continuously evolving process, it's more useful to view it as a sequence of phases separated by reconversion-driven boundaries. We think PPPs can give Sanders a cleaner way to decide which measurements still belong to the current phase and which ones should no longer be mixed into congestion control decisions. Next, please. So what past models in essence should like? Our intuition is that the physical leopaths can be complicated, but from the center's view, centers can often view each phase through a much simpler logical view, which is a single bottleneck. So Leopass is better understood as a sequence of bottleneck regimes rather than one continuously evolving path process. Next. please. Just a quick note that we are in time. So if there's any of the next couple of slides that are the most important, let's talk to this. Oh, okay. So to conclude, we think that for the IETF community, maybe it's more important to define PPP with well-defined meanings. So there are three points, semantic exposure and CCA adaptation. And we think that beyond congestion signaling, transport layer may also need signaling for such pass-based change it. Next slide, please. So we hope this perspective can help frame future discussion on transport design for new networks. And that's all. Thank you. Thank you so much. If anybody wants to dive for the queue super fast. All right, let's wrap ourselves up. Thank you, Stuart, for hopping into the room as a delegate as well. And we will see you all on the list. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.