Now, again is in the thing we can't even if we can start. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Shenzhen, ATF 125 routing group meeting. So let's start with chairs update. You're fully automated, yes. Not well, please read not well, please make sure you're familiar with all the and ITF guidelines with regards to conducting yourself. And please don't harass others. Be nice. Each other. Meeting tips, if you participate in person, please sign into the session and raise your head if you are trying to get a talk. For remote, please make sure your audio and video is off. Benwick is limited, life is short, so only do it when you're presenting. So minutes are collaborative. Please join via METECA for questions and please check the notes and minutes before we publish them so we know we are published in the right thing. And when you are speaking, please take your name in my affiliation. We've got, as always, long and full agenda, so please be on time. Don't need to other people time. We don't have any new resistance, 124. So we've adopted the netification PS problem statement, and we are looking for And we are looking further how fun tell or fun with the new name is going to develop. Eventually, we might decide to spin out, actually, new working group. There is still ongoing discussion on the Charter. There's more and more kind of surrounding documents. We've published information model and data model. And potentially we expect before 126 to start the process of new working group. VRP has been through publication. Thanks authors for great work here. A lot of boarding. Multisegman is working group last call. Actually, working group last call is formally done given the dates. The authors have responded to all the questions, so I'll do a review during the weekend and continue with further progress of the draft. There are some formal changes. Injink is joining the draft's co-author and I'll be doing the shepherding. And please review all the new changes. I think Ingen did really great work by making more readable and fixing all the stuff that should have been fixed years ago. So there was a meeting with VRP. IP, if the outsource will be updated, we'll update the working group on the decision-taking, but we are progress-inclusive. The net cloud problem set has been returned to working group, again for, I'm not sure how many times, but we need consensus to progress it or maybe not progress it. On QS model, there have been comments from directorate review. It's on agenda today. A service is figures protection. I think we reach consensus with the LSR. So it will go and join a last call with LSR. And this Nayser's routing, Revive. There are some commands that needs to be addressed. And if no questions, we'll start with the first presentation. Can we get one or two volunteers? one or two volunteers to have with the minute? Anybody? Come on. Yeah, okay. Your virtual assistant. That one always works, no complaint, right? And as a side comment, please send your slides before the deadline. We have a deadline for a reason. We will just. not allow you to present if you don't do that. So, for example, I received a slides update request this morning. So I cannot guarantee that I will always see that sort of request. So if you don't submit your slides before the deadline we specify, we cannot guarantee your presentation, period. And in GenB is nice. He cannot guarantee, I can guarantee you won't. QS model. Yeah, I will be online. Thanks for sharing the slides. Okay, so hello everyone. My name is Azeem Chaudhry. I will be providing the updates for QS Yang model. Let me control the slides. Thanks. Thanks. Okay. Since the last working group calls, we have got multiple comments through multiple reviews. And most of the comments have been regarding the refined language refinement and improvement of descriptions. We have taken care of almost all the comments. We have also got some comments. We also got some comments regarding the data types which are used in filters and actions. And based on these comments, we are able to update the draft to version 15, which has been published now. So I feel try to cover two important comments. First comment, was regarding the DCP range, which as per the comment, DSCP range may violate RFC 2474. So there was a discussion on the working group milling chain, milling list regarding that. And based on the resolution which we achieved in the working group, milling list, we have modified the in the document to state explicitly that the domain gateway routers has to abide by, has to respect RFC 846, and for internal domain internal routers, make us fight traffic based on the DSCP ranges. I actually want to highlight was regarding the PHP selection on the notes. And it was mentioned in the draft that there's no clarification or description, detailed description about PHP selection, where the PHP selected and who takes what kind of actions. And based on the comment, we have modified the draft to explicitly state that PSP is selected at as node as well as at the core of the DFSR domain. There is a B class 5 which maps DSEP traffic to a particular pHP per node and DSCP to pHP mapping is local to the node. And indeed, multiple DSCP value may map to the same pHP at the single node. And obviously, same DSCP, may map to a different PHP when it's a different node in the network. There has been some comments about data mail also. And essentially what we have done, we have taken care of those commands and to list out. We had defined source and destination IP4 and IPV6. which were defined as a list, but there was a single element in the list. So we have defined it as a leaf list. In addition to that, we had a protocol type, protocol in the filter type, which was defined as Uint 8, based on the RFC 9911. We have defined as a protocol number as defined in the IATF, INET types. in the RFC 9911. In addition to that, we had the reference of QL's policy, reference of meter reference, as well as the Q reference, which was defined as strings, even though we had defined the templates for those in the same draft. So now we have changed the type from string to leaf ref to the corresponding template for the, you know, corresponding reference concepts. So as the next step, we'll essentially double click on the working group last call, review comments. We suddenly want to address any particular remaining comments. which probably may have left out. And I also suggest and request people from this particular community to review the draft again and pass any further comments. We suddenly plan to work on those and we take care of those comments in the next version of the draft. Questions? I assume. I assume the comments you have been addressing our direct rate review comments. The document hasn't done through working group last call yet. Okay, I see. Okay, yeah. It means we asked for last call, but yes. Yeah, it still has to make. So mostly good updates. Drive is now more concise. Please bring it to the finish line. We would really like to start working with last call. It's about time. Okay. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. This is a gentleman from Hawaii. I'm going to give an update on this first network notification problem statement on behalf of all the authors and contributors. So this is a quick recap of the background. For people who are not familiar with this information, we actually based on the motivation from the AI or machine learning training service, but also consider considering the requirements from the other cloud-based services, the network needs to be more adaptive, can be reacted faster to make ensure the service can be reliable and the congestion-free transferred within all among data centers. And we think what we need is a good and timely understanding of the network operational status, including the congestion, situation, failures to help improve the network utilization, reduce the service latency, and enable faster response to other critical events. So this document describes the problem statement of fast network notifications, and it is used as a supporting document for the incubation of the new working group on the fast network notification of college fund. So here, So here are the updates since last presentation in ITF 124. We have received many comments and good suggestions and incorporate them into the current version. We would like to thank to people who have reviewed the draft and contribute to the text. First way, here on this page, we list the changes before the adoption call. We have a new co-author, Rashad, and the scope has been narrowed down to fast network notification according to the feedback on the ITI-124 meeting. The structure of the document has also been reorganized to improve the readability, thanks to Adrian for the help. And the introduction section, and also the section three have been enhanced with text about why fast notification is needed and what fast notification means. The description of the existing mechanism has all been also been revised to be more accurate like the description related to BFD and the ECN. We also add one subsection about the possible actions. It also clarifies that the action mechanisms themselves are out of the scope of this work. And the security considerations has also been enhanced. And we also received a lot of good comments during the adoption call and the draft has been revised to address these comments. First, we have revised abstraction section to address the comments on loss list, I think this is now it's more accurate. And we will further clarify that the scope is limited to fast network notification in explicit in the draft. And we also mentioned that fast notification applied to a range of network scenarios and top while the solutions for different cases may differ. We also have some text. We also reduce the text in the recipient's subsection to focus on the receivers as entities. And the delivery mechanism for the fast network notification have been expanded to include the subscription-based approaches. There are also so many editorial changes to hold the text. And since this working group document now, a GitHub repository was created for collaborations. Here is the link to the GitHub repository. For now, all the comments or issues have been addressed and the issues have been closed. We welcome your review and further comments, either in the main list or to the GitHub. Here, I would love to also mention the progress of the Fentile of FAM site meeting during this week. The goal was to polish the charter text in a face-to-face meeting, which is more efficient. And we really did that. So we got very good constructive discussions and comments during the meeting, to all the participants. And we also have one agreement on the term or name used for this potential work, working group, which is the fan. We also updated the chatter text based on the comments received during the side meeting or before the site meeting on the GitHub. And for now, all the issues have been closed. And here is the GitHub repository link. Please review and continue the discussion on the Fenthal list. They can also raise issues to the GitHub. So for the next steps. We will, the authors of the problem statement draft will update the draft to reflect the comments received during the sub meeting because some of the scope or some of the description in the sub-meeting will, it can be used in the province state draft. And we welcome further review and comments to this draft. Either you can send comments to the list, raise the issues on the GitHub so that we can reach a relative state, steady state. as soon as possible to guide the future work. Thank you. Any questions? Jeff, go ahead. Hi, G, this is Jeff. A very quick comment. The security mechanisms are very likely going to introduce no latency into the feedback mechanism. And it's since the security mechanisms almost inevitably slow things down, one of the things. should talk about is what the latency requirements are for the feedback mechanisms for this to actually accomplish the desired goal. Yeah, very good question. I think during the summit, people also mentioned this, how much we want to take the security into consideration in the beginning of the work. We really want to balance this between the security and also the effectiveness of the notification. Yeah, it is something we... It is something we may consider to revising the text to reflect this. So I think we'll happily use the definition of limited domains that the services brought and, you know, as long as you are there, no security. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Thank you. There was some discussions about it during the charter when we were talking about the domains that technology applied. Yeah. the charter will be updated to reflect that. Yeah, we already have some text about the domains under the single administrative control. How we may start from that. Okay. So, yeah, there was some formalization of term limited domain during service if it's work, I think we can reuse it. Yeah, yeah, sure. And get to that, engine myself, we started working on data model, so probably sometime next week, we will publish first three vision of data model to kind of formalize all the discussions. Good. Any other questions, comments? No, thank you, J. Thank you. Joy, who is it? Are you here or online? Oh, I guess that? Go ahead. Yeah. Okay. Thank you, Chess. Ladies and gentlemen, I am Roy Jung from Alibaba Cloud. Today, I would like to present all jobs on job on behalf cloud. the other co-orders, and this chapter is about the IP faster route for the AI and the machine learning fabrics. And this is the first time we present this chapter in IT. So firstly, there is a reminder of the AI backend networks. So the scale-up network, which is the network, between the GPUs is out of scope of this discussion. Let's focus on the scale out and the scale across network. The scale out network typically is a network within the DC, the data center. It has a two or three tiered, folded cross architecture, typically. sometimes it's leverage the multi-plan and multi-rail design. And from the perspective of the routing protocol, typically, it's run the EBGP. So all the know talk to each other with EBGP, there's no IGP protocol. And for the resiliency and magnets, it's heavily react on the ECMP to do the fastest, to do the fastest faster switch over. And the scale across networks is another story. Typically, a scale across network is a wide area network, right? So the topology would be more arbitrary. And the routing protocol, typically we use the IGP and the BGP. Okay. And as to the resiliency magneton. So, besides the ECMP, we will use the LFA, the loop-free alternative, or TIRFA, which is a magazine, rely on the segment routing to achieve the topology independent LFA. And we found that there are some limitations of the existing mechanisms. the first one is the current mechanism is very slow because it depends on the CPU to activate the resiliency mechanism right a CPU need to be involved to react to the the failure which will cost around maybe hundreds of milliseconds but for the for the AI or machine learning workload, it may need 100 microsecond level of faster convergence time, so it's very slow if the CPU is involved. And the second way is all of this current protection mechanism only handle the local failure, which means only the node suffers the failure can take action, okay, to do the ECMP faster switchover or to enforce the TIFFA path. But the ECMP is not always available in the network. For example, in the three tiered cross architecture, when the packet comes from the ingress leaf, to the spine, there are ECMPs. From the span to super span, there are ECMPs. But if you go from the super span to the next span, and from the next span to the next step, there are no ECMPs. Okay? That's the case of the DC network. And in the in the in the, in the, in the scale across network, if you use the TIRA, it will cause the helping, right? The helping of the traffic, which is not optimal. So that's the second limitation. The third one is all of this faster route to McLeodon cannot handle the case of capacity reduction or the quality degradation. It needs work on a binary way, right? It needs it's only between yes or no. But we hope the network can handle the case in a more smart way. It's aware of the different case, for example, if the capacity is reducted by some partially link failure, for example, a bundle member link, for example, a bundle member link failure, but not instead of a whole bundle failure, fine? So based on this analysis, we propose our framework with four enhancement to improve the performance of the faster convergence in fabric for the machine learning and the AI. The first one is the hardware accelerated protection activation. The third one, the second one is hardware accelerated network notification. The third one is a mechanism to achieve the complete topology visibility in a BGP-based network. The last one is a quality of wear and the remote protection, where it goes through those four points one by one. hardware-accelerated protection activation, this is fundamentally is a matter of local implementation, right? It's leveraged the extended NPU capabilities to activate the protection without the CPU involved. So it's very fast. And we want to say, we hope. So this hardware accelerated activation could handle both the local failure and the remote failure. In the later case, we rely on the second magazine, which is hardware-based notification, spread or exchanged within the network. So, yeah, that's the hardware-based network. notification. So we have extensively discussion in the Fentia contest. I will not repeat those discussions. And there are two very helpful or useful draft for the statements, a problem statement, and the some, you know, the standardization effort in the IETI, And the third one is complete topology visibility. As you know, in IGP-based network, the link state protein protocol can exchange the link state information, right? flooding those information across all the whole network and every node have the visibility of the topology so that it can, you know, make the decision based on the topology to react to the failure to react to the failure. For example, to build the loop-free alternative path. But in a typical DC network for the AI, for the machine learning, we use BGP. BGP is a distance vector routing protocol. Do not exchange the link state information. So I will know the running BGP only aware of the topology around itself, around itself, not go beyond the next, not go beyond its neighbor. So to resolve this problem, we propose. Sorry, you have 30 seconds. Okay. We propose to use the BGP protocol to exchange the link state information so that all of the notes can do the TIAFA. The last one is the quality of wire remote protection. and that idea is to let the note to advertise the to notify the failure with different types in more detailed information so that the other node can react to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the video yeah I think that's basically all I have for this session and we are looking forward any feedback from the community yeah thank you Good Yes. Thank you. So am I missed, I heard you right that you said that you said that you need to achieve 100 microseconds switch over time. Yeah. Okay, so what defect detection or failure detection you envision to use? Yeah, we expect to rely on the hardware based value detection for For example, the NPU to detect or the driver to detect any failure of the link in a very faster way. Well, for example, BFD is implemented with a hardware assistance, would that be something that you believe will be suitable? No, because BFD is hardware-based to send or receive the problem but it's still involved the CPU to handle the situation if the keep alive packet lost, right? So you still rely on the CPU and CPU is the is the the source of the slow possession. So we want to totally bypass the CPU to make the NPU itself to react to the to the failure. But how you can guarantee detection of uh network link failure if there is nothing being transmitted on the link. So. Okay. Okay. That's uh, yeah, that that's another topic. I think given the limit limited time, we can discuss it in the in the alias. Let's take it back. Okay. Grant, I think it's local implementation detail and, uh, and it's a very good topic. I think if you look at it. I think it's an interoperability issue, but yeah, okay. Let's take it to the list. Yeah, I agree with it. Yeah. Yeah. So, in fact, we talked from Channel Mobile, and I think it's a very good presentation. About one years ago, we printed another solution. solution, very similar to your solution. Maybe you can have some talk offline. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So working group shared nothing. It's a great pleasure to see all this technologies. We've been working on for 20 years coming back. It's full cycle. I started for our work 15, 20 years ago, still coming back. So I really welcome this work. It's interesting. think, please clearly separate data center network from one network. If we're looking at what you call Scala Cross, actually we call Scala Frost, it's nothing else on regular one network. All the technology we've been developing over the years from RCP, Pastero route, DTILFA are fully available. In regular topology, the situation is different. You actually know the topology before regular kind of. So focus on complete separation in problem statement. and what do you find solutions for us? Sorry, I did the couple data center network from one network. Okay, sure, sure, yeah, makes sense. Yeah, we'll do that. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's go to the next question. Okay. Hey, good morning. I hope you hear me well. I'm Franzatlade from Sispo. and I'm going to present the efficient remote protection draft on behind of the corridors. So that is a fairly new draft. It was submitted a few weeks ago. So it's the first presentation we're doing on it, and we welcome any feedback from the walking group. Okay, so that follows the previous presentation. presentation and in particular this efficient remote protection or the remote protection that is also quality aware. We'll see that more in detail for these slides. So I wanted to highlight first two limitations that we have with current IP fast-reveote technologies, in particular in AI Data Center, because of all these new requirements that the AI won't close imposes. The first limitation is that this is local-only protection. So it's only the node that is local to the failure, that is detecting the failure, that takes action to protect the traffic. Of course, the IGP or the routing protocol, IGP or BGP, will eventually re-rout. But the point of fast route is to be faster than the IGP and to be faster. take care of delivering to traffic in the meantime. So here, at that local protection, it can be ECMP or it can be LFA. And that's great when we have that, but we don't always have an ECMP or LFA available. And then if we don't have a ECMP or LFA, then we can use other mechanisms like remote LFA or KLFA. But those can create the helping kind of issues, like we see in that example. So we have a lift L1 that is sending traffic to L2 via a spine S2. And there is a failure from the spine to the lift, to the destination leave. And the spine S2 is enabling its TLFA path. It's sending the traffic on the post-convergence path to want a destination that is via L1, then S1 and L2. and L2. That's normal. That's the post-conceptions are from S2 perspective. But if we look at it from the perspective of L1, it's not very efficient because we're sending traffic from L1 to S2, then back to L1 to S1 and finally to the destinations. That's what we are calling the HAPLN and the kind of thing that we want to avoid. In particular, in those AI data center were latency and bandwidth are so critical. Another limitation that we have with the current faster route, as I mentioned earlier, is that there is no load on quality awareness. So the fast route, it reacts to complete failure, but if there is a link degradation or partial failure, then it doesn't react to them. So let's take the example. It's similar to what we had before, but here we are using link bundles. two times 10 gigs, so that gives us a 20-gig link pendant. And we have a partial failure on one of the member links from S2 to L2. So instead of the 20 gigs, we only have 10 gigs available. But the leave L1 doesn't know about that. So it keeps sending 20 gigs and then doing its regular ECMP between S1 and NN and S2. But at S2, we only have 10 gigs available out of the 21. available out of the 20 that L1 is sending and that creates a congestion. Okay, so in order to solve that issue, we are proposing this new mechanism that we called efficient remote protection. So let's start with the failure case, which is maybe easier. So here on the left and side, we had the example that we used before with the helping problem. But if we had a mechanism for S2 to notify L1 that there is a failure from S2 to L2, then L1 could actually act in it and could have a backup path protection for that remote failure. And that protection would send the traffic to the spine S1 directly and then to L2. So that traffic won't have to go to go. to S2 and then back to L1. Of course, as I said, we need a notification of that failure. So that leads back to the work on Fan or Fentel, on fast failure notification. This would be a requirement for those kind of solutions. Before I go to the quality key thing and the point and the portion failure, I wanted to highlight something about this failure notification. We had some discussion on Monday during the site meeting about who should receive the failure notification, or the network notification, should it be limited to one hop, should it go further than that? So here I wanted to highlight one interesting case. In a three tier four-it-closed network, like we can see in some AI data center, if we have a failure between the destination, well, the spine before the destination leave and that destination leave, then actually we may need to go three hubs away to find a remote protection, an efficient remote protection. The problem we have here is that from the local node that detects the failure, so SD1, We don't really have any efficient protection available. We could send the traffic back, but that creates a herpin. Or we could send it to another leaf, and then back to another spine, and finally to the destination leaf. But that's not really efficient either. So there is no efficient local protection. If we go back one hop to the super spine level, then here we really don't, there is really nothing we can do, thing we can do because under the super spine doesn't have any ECMP. It's only connected to one spine in each of, in the destination pod. So it can't really do anything. Then let's go back one more hop to the source spine, or the spine in the source pod. And here we're connected to two different super spines. But these two different spines. super spines are themselves connected to the same spine in the destination boat most of the time. So again, it doesn't help. And then in the end, the only way to efficiently protect against that failure is to go back on the way to the Schoen sleeve, the LA1 in that example. That means three hops away. So that failure notification will need to travel three hubs. Okay, so then a note on the quality awareness. So if we go back to the example we had before about the quality, so here we have the same function failure, the failure of a member link of that bundle between S2 and L2 that reduces the capacity to 10 gig. If we send a degraded quality notification, another type of network notification, from S2 to L1, then L1 can act on it and can access its load balancing. So that it no longer sends 20 gigs to S2, but it only sends 10 gig. And then I've been, finally, I've been talking a lot about ECMP, the ECMP fast route and data center topology. But I just wanted to add that the kind of solution we described in the draft are in fact applicable to any topology. Now, I understand Jeff that the requirements in the AI data center and the requirements in the one are totally different. I'm not saying that this is a one size, it's all, not at all. I'm just saying that here we have a generate solution, but of course the primary focus from that is the AI data center. And I think I am out of time. So that's good. I reached the final slide. So as I said before, this is the first presentation. It's a new draft. So we welcome any feedback, any, yeah, any comment, any contribution from the working group on that one on that one. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you from Channel Mobile. So for us all, thank you very much for our presentation. Thank you very much about presentation. I think we catch the same problem and provided similar solutions. I send the messages through the chat. Please see the draft I mentioned and maybe we can talk more offline. Thank you. Yeah, of course. Thank you very much. Thank you. Jeff and Sir, NVIDIA's working group member. A couple of observations here. and actually address to all drafts previously presented. Please don't forget there's an extremely robust livability framework implemented on the host. There is, how does host know where to send travel? It runs congestion control that as of today is RTT-based pretty much everywhere. So Harpinning is absolutely detrimental to collective performance. If part of your QP goes over longer paths, entire collective will suffer really badly. So we really don't want to do bypasses in this network. Not to forget, it's really an acute distance leaves by network, so you don't need bypass. Number two, usually we have hardware props implemented from the host site that are very past. So normal period would be kind of one prop priority. So think about 5 to 10 microseconds. seconds. We must make sure the in-network faster route doesn't interact in weird ways with on host faster route. Some of us remember ATM over IT fast-year-out and what happened when they start to interact with each other. Very similar situation. Make sure the timing is right not to try to interact with host-based notification because this is how host changes planes and potentially use different GPUs. So this is not really kind of open knowledge. If you run the AI network, you know this otherwise not. So I'll try to guide you to the degree I can share with you, but practically keep in mind there's very robust and developed machinery on the host and network is just thinking between. It must not intervene in any healthy way. Yeah. Hi, Alifers, here. A quick question. So in the Mardi Hope scenario, how do you know, how does, how do the sending know know which, who are the receiver of the notification? So in the model hope scenario, of course, you want to MardiardCard's right. So, yeah. So here, that's a very good question. Thank you. I think part of the question. Part of it will have to be answered by whatever solution we came up, we come up with for the network notification. But in my opinion, we would need some kind of a subscription mechanism, a wave for the notes that are interested in those notifications to make themselves known to the sender so that they can receive them. But again, that's just my opinion on it. and it's a topic that is open for this patient. Thank you. As a working group chair now, I believe the answer would come from Fantel or Funn whether the encapsulation of fast notifications layer two. So one hopper definition, whether it's IPUDP, which could potentially be multi-help or something in between, right? So we would expect this to come from Fantel work. So we'll go to the next presentation. So just a reminder, we do have a very tight schedule. So all the presenters, please try to stay in your allocated time slot, including Q&A, if you are expecting questions. Thank you. Okay. I will give a brief update of the fair and sound dropped. Change is since the zero one version, the addition of five causes, most of them are from GPU vendors, the addition of some considerations on memory semantic operations. Here I will clarify the motivation for this draft. As you know, business-based scalp network has becoming a dominant trend. trend. Here are at least some credit examples. In eastern as scale networks, there are multiple plans with GPU being multi-home to each plan. For the traffic, using the scalp networks, it has characteristics such as low choppy, elephant flows, and burstness. So the traditional standards. traditional stentic ESMP is not applicable in such scenario. Adaptive routing has been widely recognized at MECNM to improve the law balancing in multi-planned networks. Fair using BGP is a standard-based adapter routing mechanism, which was originally designed for scale networks. but it's straightforward to extend this protocol to the scale networks. That means GPU could interchange BP routing with top switches and then perform adaptive routing. Here I give a concrete example about one tier scale network. Here, each GPU is equipped with multiple, uh, equipped with multiple, uh, high-speed parts and at least one subpart is connected to a given network plan. The reason for using multiple links between a given GPU part and per plan, including it's easy to scale up the scale up the size of the size of the scale up the size of the size. the size of the super pot. For example, if you need to add more GPUs with a single layer of network, you can use less links between GPU and the switches within a given plan. Also, you can add more layer. For example, you add another top layer. switches, so that's the reason why multiple links is popular popular to be used in this narrow. In this example, if there are no link down event happened, then when performing a lot of balancing by source GPU, it was sent the same weight values for each ECMP route where each network plan. In case one sublink of a given plan broken, the ESMP wrote where that error plan will be reduced by 50%. If the whole plan is broken, then the ECMP route where that plan, the weight will be set to zero. The logic is very simple. It's bandwidth capacity where WSMP and you can perform, you can perform per flow-flow-flow-based-based W-based or per packet-based ESMP. For flow-based WESMP, it's useful for ordered packet delivery mode. And at least one RDMAQ need to be established between a given PGP pairs for, for at least one support. Of course, switches in this scenario need to perform per flow-based lot balancing. For per packet, WSMP, a single QP is good enough for a given pair of GPU. And in this case, both GPU and the switches could perform per packet-based WSMP, also called packet spring. When implementing memory, thematic operation, we could support stream mode, such a weak ordering, strong ordering, and passwording. Since we provide flexible selection between per packet and per flow-based lot balancing, it's easy to achieve the three mode requirements. Currently, a PUC of 64 GPU support is almost completed, while the one key CPU support is almost completed. while the 1K GPU support is on the way. Any comment or sessions? Jeff and Sir, NVIDIA. Two questions. One, most of the KELAP frameworks mentioned Envision non-IP encapsulation. Wouldn't that mean that we would need something like EVPN to provide non-IP identifiers? You mean there are no IP traffic? The endpoints are GPU identifiers. They are not IP addresses. But some GPU vendors can still support IP-based encapsulation. Absolutely. But again, if you are going through list of frameworks, most of them envision compressed Internet alike. It's not really Internet, but definitely layer too. Don't you think we would need something that can allow transport of APEC identifiers? such as CVPN, for example. Let me try to understand your topic. You mean in a single pair network, you don't need IP-based wording? I'm not saying whether it's needed or not. I'm just commenting on frameworks you've mentioned. Most of them envision non-IP encapsulated traffic. Okay, let's talk offline. Second question, in a single tier. In a single tier, there's no routing. In a single tier, there's no routing. In a single tier, there's no routing. In a single tier, there's no routing. There's no VGP. Practically, if anything, you need some form of fast notification. We are produced, we are introducing VGP to this scenario. Of course. There are no BGP currently, but we are pushing forward. What's direction? BGP on the host? Yeah, BGP, BGP running on host is common. Even Nvidia's stack technical protocol, even Nvidia's tech stack can support running BGP on host. You can confirm with some of your cost. You can confirm with some of your cost. Okay. Okay. Good morning. This is Han Zheng Xin from China Unicom. Today I'm going to share our work on the flow control collaboration across data center networks and wet area networks, based on these two below drops. Let's start with the background. Currently, PFC and ECN are widely adopted in data centers for Los Lens transmissions. slash transmission. With the rapid growth of distributed AI training and influence across geographically separated data centers, the demand for congestion-free data transfer has extended from the DCNs to 1. As we can see from the table, the 1 is very different from the DCN. It is a enlarged square with a complex dynamic topology. and long RTT. The traffic has frequent microbursts. So all of this makes significant challenges to achieving congestion-free data transmission. Why not just apply the PFC to one? PFC is a layer two mechanism of providing the port level feedback for hope-by-hop pressure over the air pressure over. back pressure over internet. It works well in DCM, but when it applied to 1, it has critical limitations, including the head-of-line blocking, dialogues, and congestion spreading. These issues will create the network support and utilization in 1. So to address these limitations and based on the fantail problem discussion, We propose the fine green flow control FGFC as an enhancement of PFC designed for IP1. It is a fast, precise layer 3 congestion control mechanism operates in the data plan for a million second level response. The FGFC enables precise flow control identities, and like the PFC port control, level control and it limits the flow control to specific pies and slices and provide intelligent congestion back pressure based on the traffic prediction. We can extend the PFC view the network protocols such as ICMP, UDP, etc., to carry this kind of bad pressure message. And why we need to consider the co-deployment of PFC and FGFC. For data center interconnection over wet area network, it requires to achieve the congestion-free data transfer across data center. As the PFC is already deployed within the DC and the FGFC is a new mechanism used in one. The H node R1 and R5 in figures served as a boundary between these two domains need to coordinate PFC and FGFC to coordinate achieve the end-to-end flow control. There are two types of the deployment scenarios. Scenario 1 is a single-hop direct interconnection. The FGFC message are directly sent between the age node R1 and R5, so the established tunnel. And the scenario two is a multi-hop interconnection where the intermediate node participate in the the congestion control process and depends on the capability of the intermediate nodes. It supports both hold-by-home-back pressure and crosshold back pressure. This flexibility makes the compatibility with the existing network device both in the critical deployments. And how the PFC and FGFC interworking from each other. from each other. When the DCN congestion, it triggers the bad pressure on nodes in one. For example, when the congestion occurs at Data Center B, the data center B will send the standard PFC frames to the HNNNNR5, and the R5 will buffer the affected traffic, and when it reaches the buffer threshold, it will generate FGFC packet with the periodic EF1, Slice ID, and Post-HAN, etc., to the upstream node IX. And if the IAS cannot resolve the congestion, it will continue sending the bad pressure message upstream. Conversely, from the FGFC to PFC, when the one is congested, it triggers. It triggers the bad pressure index in. For example, the congestion occurs at H-Node RX, and the RX in the specific slides with the priority AF1, and the RX will send the FGFC package to the H-Node R1 with the AF1 Slice ID and Posting Time. The H-Node R1 will buffer the MIT traffic and H-Nodeau. and when it reaches a buffer threshold, the H-Node R1 generated the standard PFC frames for the data center A. Then the data center A will stop all the affected traffic at corresponding part. As the age node plays an important role for the similar FGFC and PFC collaboration below are the requirements. First, coordination and bi-directional translation between the WAN DC flow control, including the protocol conversion, semantic mapping, and policy alignment, and needed support for the network slicing. Second, effectively respond to the DCNPF frames. The agent only to learn the flow to pod mapings and manage the buffer results generate the FGFC packets for one. The third, effectively respond to the FGFC message in 1. The H node use the flow and part mapping relationship to determine the target DNC ports and design points and generate standard PFC frame for the DCN. This requirement specifies the H node capability and and guiding the device implementation. Besides, we have also done several trials for validation. In Hangzhou, Jinwa, we deployed storage and computing separation AI training over VAM, and in Shanghai, we deployed the distributed inference using the model splitting learning. These trials achieved over 95% computational efficiency compared to choose a centralized way. And for both trials used FGFC in 1 and the PFC in AIDC to guarantee the RDMA performance over long distance. And the gateway devices met the requirements mentioned above for the collaborative deployment, successfully achieving the end-to-end flow control. For next step, we are seeking for more review. I'm seeking for more reviews and comments, and we will maintain alignment with Vantel work and related congestion control drafts. Thanks for your attention. It's very interesting work, thank you. I have one request for the draft. As you know, buffer space is required to hold PC message. And there's a formula to calculate buffer space per distance, per traffic loss. I believe it's one meter per 20 kilometers. Unfortunately. If you could include table on memory requirements based on the distance in the one that would be very useful for the draft. You mean could I put the... Oh, sorry, could you mean that I put one for the buffers or... Yeah, based on the distance on the one links. So because the distance, like the average trail, 300 kilometers, so the, yeah, we need a big upper head room for the device, yeah. And we have, as a network operators, we have seen several new devices that with a large buffer. If you could include a table on memory requirements based on the distance in the drafts, that would be very helpful for people who read to understand it. Okay, thanks for your suggestion. At least to put some information, maybe as an appendix, if that there is, you know. Okay. We will improve our drafts. Thanks for your, yeah, suggestion. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm Ysung Liu from ChannelMobile. And today I will present the Maticaster use cases for the RM synchronization on BFA of my co-authorsors. Firstly, I will introduce. scenario of the RM synchronization in the inference clouds. As we see in the FIC, the multi-cloud RM synchronization is that the centralized model repository automatically replicated and synchronize the ARMs to the distributed to the distributed GPU cloud platforms. and every platform has local, the storage, and maybe the GPU Clouds in different regions, or even in different operator networks. So the Immigration Inferenced Cloud Service will deliver the large-scale real-time inference when tuning and model optimization services on the GPU cloud platforms. So for this scenario, we have two challenges. The first one is the high concurrency. So a popular large model with the size may be 20 gigamise to the 1 terabyte. That may be a download simultaneously across thousands of GPU cloud. And this will lead to the input or output bottlenecks as the storage repository, which will delay the model distribution and scale. And the second challenge is that the code start latency. So the inference service cannot start until the model is fully downloaded to the CPU cloud. And then the low download efficiency leads to the significant code start latency. It will delay the user to access the influence service. So although this synchronization process is separate from the training and the inference procedure, but it will directly affect the efficiency and reliability of the inference service delivery. So why multi-cast is needed in this scenario? Firstly, synchronization, the largest models to the multiple GPU clouds is a typical multicast use cases. Obviously, it's a point to multi-point pattern. And the second is that it will reduce the IO BotNX from the similar panels, improve the transmission efficiency, and minimize the code start latency. The third one is that the GPU clouds ban the multiple regions, even multiple operator networks. So multi-cast technologies capable of operate across the different works, including the core and the natural networks that is required. So for this requirement, requirement, we have some candidate multi-caster technologies. We have a very brief analysis here for the traditional PMSM. PMSM requires a multi-cutter tree to be established in advance. So all knows along the tree for every replication parts will maintain the multi-castle flow information. And it is slow to the response to the network technology changes. But it can be removed by the bus reroute mechanism like the MOFR. And it is suitable for the scenarios where the set of the destination GPU clouds is relatively fixed. For the SRP2M mechanism, this mechanism will realize the on the controller to implement the multi-cast traffic engineer room. And the replicating nodes, it means that the replication sees or requires a state. The multi-cast tunnel must be established beforehand. And it is also slow to respond to the network topology changes. But it can be improved by the, also by the faster rerouting mechanism. And it is suitable. It is suitable for the scenarios, also for the destination edge cloud, is relatively fixed. For the beer. Beer is a, as we know, is a stateless multi-cast technology, and no need to establish a multi-caster tree. And it will response quickly to the network topology changes. And then no requirement for the, that the destination chip cloud is set to be fixed. So we just initiated the use case and the discussion of the scenario. And we want more detailed requirements and the quotation gaps discussion from the working group. Thank you. You did say was a few minutes. Thank you. If you have any questions and comments, please send it to the, I'm cast to AI, the main list. Thank you. We do have another one presentation that's also multicast related. related. Hello, hello everyone. Could you hear me? Yes. We can hear you. You have control of the slides. Yes, thank you. Hello, everyone. I'm Gia John from China Mobile, and I'm going to present our new draft requirements and gaps analysis of some multi-cast in AI data centers. Next slide. Next slide, please. You have... Okay. Oh, okay. Oh, thank you, thank you. First, let's see a multi-classer use cases in the center centers. We know the mixture of experts is a popular model architectures of training and influence, and it's replaced traditional dance models to by sparse models with dynamically activated experts. And we let's see a macro process of the MOE layers. After computed by the tension networks, a token is dispatched to multiple-selected experts decided by getting networks and each tokens may be routed to different experts. And with experts, parallelisms in distributed, some training on the inference. The token dispatch process may be implemented across different GPUs connected by networks. And the token dispatch process follows the point two MPP transfer pattern, which is a typical multi-classer use case. Another use case is for the LMD training, is a core collective communication pranks. And the audio process can be decomposed to the reduce and broadcasts where the broadcasts, where the broadcasts, it exhibits P2MB traps the patterns, which naturally match in the multicast, semantics. And for the task in the AI data centers, besides the model training and the inference, There are also the tasks such as model distributions before the drops start and see checkpointing savings during the model trainings and these traffic generated storage networks on the ADCs. And for some model distributions, it's to distribute the model parameters from the storage nodes to to computing nodes, seven many computing nodes, and for the checkpoint saving, it's typically related to multiple storage target for the, to ensure, to ensure the abilities. So it's also some multicars user cases. And above, and from the above multi-caster use cases, we can see that this is, exhibits numerous P2MP traffic patterns. And inside of, you see many unique costs to implement P2MP communications. Using networks communication to a flow data replication from the servers to the network devices to implement P2MP communications has many benefits, such as for the processing and latencies. Multicats can reduce the processing overhead and the latencies. and the latencies of the source GPUs and the source nix. And then, it can enhance scalability by reducing the source size overhead. And as for transmission as bandwidth, multi-casts can limit the reductive transmission from the source and improves the receiver size throughput by reducing the bandwidth pressure as the source. And now, let's introduce some multi-cost requirements in added centers. The first wide interactivity is. As we know, P2MP forwarding and data replication is the fundamental functions of some multicasts. But for the multicars in the air data centers, it are supposed to support the efficient multipoint, 2.2. MP2P forwarding particulars for feedbacks such as acknowledgement and congestion signals to meet ultra-hise reliability requirements of the AID center networks and to avoid feedback storms with numerous receivers, the MP2P forwardings as opposed to coordinate with MP2P packet aggregations. The next requirement is reliability. As we just mentioned, the networks in IDCs exposed to Tuesday's losses. And under the normal conditions without networks and wear failures. But when the networks meet network failures, such as link failures, the metacostal mechanisms are supposed to support the faster failure detection and the recoveries. And so for handling the mechanisms, as opposed to confirm the impact of the failure to smaller the size of the parts inside of the entire multicarsal trees. And for the dynamics requirements, The multi-class should adapt to the dynamics, multi-cast membership changes in the micro-second in the scenarios like the MOE token dispatchings. And the multicars should enable the instances of wording based on the real-time micasa member sections, with also needs of predefined fixed groups. And the changes over highs should be lost. As the next requirement, it's sparseness. As we know, the MOE models is sparse models. As for example, in the deep-sea v-3s, there are nine excerpts out of the 200 other parts in total. The tokens activated a small part of the X-Bers in one times. So the multi-class should be efficient for the sparse members identification, and the state maintenance should be otherwise. An effort to consider the ultra-high performance requirements outside the center networks, the multi-class should be simplicity with simple plans and efficient data plans. And there's the gap analysis of the typical existing multi-cost mechanisms with the required cost requirements in the data centers. For interactivities, there's no native sports for efficient backwards and p-to-p forwarding of the packet aggregations, and during the course, low-best, feedbacks, and And this is also less less than a cut to filter to misleosis requirements of the data center networks. And for the dynamics requirements, the barriers is a relative good, but for the sparsness requirements, the bearers string over high degrees of awarding efficiencies in sparse member scenarios. And for these capacities, the mechanism should be optimized for the ad-day centers also high performance. So now as existing multi-cast techniques can satisfy all the multi-cast requirements and ID centers. As a new architecture, also deep enhancement to the current techniques are currently. need for added centers. And we see feedbacks and we see the feedbacks and welcome the discussions. Thanks for your attention. Tony, go ahead. I hope you can hear me. So I already wrote it in the chat, but so I like this envelope, the gap analysis. That's a very good graph. A beer has a solution for the sparse stuff, but of course the size of the sparse group matters. There is a draft. You can look up. It's called U-beer for uncompressed beer or something like that. U-beer. Thanks. Patsy and it's good for your advice on the beers. And maybe there's some spires, spires the magnetisms, which would also to optimize for the optimize for the also has the requirements since the AID centers. Any other questions? Any other questions? Thank you for the presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Just a reminder for people in the room, please make sure you scan the QR code and sign into the meeting so we get the right number of people count. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for the Lutting Area Working Group Chair for the Programme, Chair, for the performance. My proposition. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for the population by the from the chair to present today in Sunzhen. I'm coming now from Shidian University. It's my great honor to present our work. My topic is a symmetry-driven cycloneals forwarding with fast-reuths for network network network network. My talk is organized by five parts. Microlobes are generated during the IGP convergence process and are triggered by link failure and the SPFAB updates on cyclinized and forwarding in consistency, and which can cause packet loss, congestion, reduce FR effectiveness. The RFC 15715 confirms confirms that microlobes, previous in topology changes. This can cause congestion and repair starvation. So the microlobes is always in the networks, but this is starvation in the neural networks. In Neo-Sernet networks, in Neo-S networks, due to the more dynamic topology, apology, longer propaganda delay, limited upward resources. So the microlobes can cause non-negligible damages. There are two drivers. Firstly, plant disruption. Orbital motion can cause ISL changes and some avoidance can cause laser link shutdown. Secondly, unplanned failure. High energy particles can cause loiter failures router failures and software force can trigger link failure. So in networks, all these changes can need more topology changes, frequency convergence, and more microlobes. So microlobes have evolved from spar radical incidents into routine events. This needs to performance discretization in the network. Given the challenge, let's think the existing approaches and onboard limitations. Current approaches such as LFA and the SPF timing control are designed for terrestrial networks and failed to fully account for those based elements and constrained resources in their networks. So how can we give this problem in another angel? Our motivation comes from the topology of the southern-nast constellation. The main constellations such as the worker data, Manhattan, and the tourist Manhattan can be obstructed as toward all topology, with rational symmetry and refection symmetry. As the picture shows, the worker data consultation can map as a tower's topology constructed by ISL and can funeral simplified to a ring topology as a basic unit. So the ring topology is the basic unit of the tower's topology. This means we can make reloading and traffic switching into a game-grounded in symmetry. symmetry. The hour staff mechanism can be can be explained by an example on ring topology. The mechanism is straightforward. Blockage can trigger reverse forward and the standpoint triggered reverse igres. For the data, package ascended from node A to D, As the picture in red shows, if there is a link error between C and D, then the packet can detour through B, A, G, F, E, before arriving D without making microloops. So how does our staff working on a node? How does our staff working on a node? The staff have five procedures. The first is initializing, detecting, trigger RF, forwarding and trans-stating, and then the recovery. All these operations are driven by local states and the confirmed cemetery those are the local node without a country plan to participate. So the above is on a ring to introduce. So how does the staff scale to towers? We proposed two policies. Counter first and network first. To lead the staff scalable towards forwarding. And the counter first is best for intraorbid failure. and the world first is best for interorbid finers. Compared with the existing FRIM exam, our proposed spots, staff have better performance in three dimensions. Resorts, expenditure, convergent speed, and complexity. So we can show that this is a fresh approach to satellite routine. certain routine. From combating dynamics to leveraging topology. We start our simulation on a 16, multiply, 16 towers, with different faultpability. The simulation results shows that at the right phase figure demonstrates that the link failure probability, the packet loss rate change with the link of failure probability and the node of finial probability. We can see that the many method LFA and RFA are reduced packet loss, but all proposed the network first demonstrates better performance. And also, and also, we have 16.5% reduced under link-fault condition and 11.2% reduced under node failure conditions. Next, then we have a demonstration and our experiments under a 5-luter ring using IPG hardware, using standard, using standard OSPOV3. with the results to staff. The experiment results show that the staff we proposed can reduce the peak congestion and can also reduce packet loss caused by micro loop and backhoe. Such as the peak congestion reduced from 3,000 mbps to 2,000 mbps. To compare, with performance. We have better packet loss and micro packet loss and it's better performance in black hole packet loss. So, we propose a step and under simulation and the experiments to approve the performance better performance better than the existing approaches existing approaches. And let me just summarize the purpose. The staff is a control plane independent dependent and to delivering the tutorial symmetry for for sewer convergence. And compared with the existing particles, it is not modified the existing particles. So it is not modified the existing particles. So it is a it is an easy to use. And that's all. Thank you. Questions, comment? No. Any questions? Hello, everyone. present control based on the R3 6 parts. This is the second presentation of this draft. And I will give a very quick view of the problem or the background in this draft. And the first is that impresses the conception notification in 1. So as we know, the traditional PFC relies on the Internet multicast. So in the 1, we know, the traditional PFC relies on the Internet multicast. So in the 1, we have more complex matched topologies. So the multicast signal is not proper in this scenario. The second challenge is that the long latency SRA 6 paths. As we know, the end-to-end SRA path can spin a large geographic distance, maybe thousands of kilometers. So it will introduce the significant wavelength of latency. The third challenge is that the control overhead as the SV6 head node. As we know that a single head node, maybe will establish numerous SRA6 processes across the one. So it will, there is some centralized bottleneck risk in the SRI6 head node. If we make the head node to deal with the congestion control. our SV6 congestion control proposal for the hope-by-hop solution. The head node in this fig, P-1, the P1, the P1 is capital seed list from the P1 and P-2 and P-3 and P-E4. So each node will forward the traffic using the local seed tables, verify the select related, form. When the congestion happens, for example, for the P3, it will detect the priority Q buffer overload, and it will send the construction notification message to the upstream node in this figure, the PE2, and it will contain the priority queue, where the congestion occurs, and the congestion control parameter information. This information may be include the post time and the target bandwidth and the must be contained the Slice ID. Okay. And the risk the receiving node like the PE2 will receive the notification and it will reduce the forwarding rate or just pause the traffic for this slides. But maybe the congestion cannot be surprised in this node. And it will detect that local priority queue overload again. So it will send the notification to its upstream node. And this procedure can happen at run hop-by-hawk until to the head node. And for the head node. For the hand node, we can use the path rebalancing or the alternative path selection for SR6 itself. And maybe it will notify the contingent control signal to the DCN. That's another story. So update from the previous draft, we have simplified message format. Because in previous draft, we put the SRH in the packet format. But maybe something in a situation like the bonding seed, like the seed, it's difficult to distinguish which upstream node we will send the notification to send the notification message to. So we just give a very simple message format for notification. And for next step, we will add more a more procedure for how to notify the past information. So this is just the concession notification message format. And it will contain the flags. to define them for now, but in the future, maybe we can define some special flags. And there's a priority for the Q priority identifier. Each priority queue can occupy the one bit. And for the gut argument, for the consensus control parameter information, like for the post time, for the default parameter. In the future, we can define the the forwarding rate, we want to reduce. And the target bandwidth indicates the target bandwidth information for the expectation suppression. And the Slice ID in the Identifel for the Slice experienced concession. So we want to seek more review and feedback from the working group. working group. That's all. Thank you. Any comments questions? All the discussion happening in the chat? Thank you for your presentation. And here's the question. One of the motivation is that a single-hand node may responsible for managing numerous SRV-6 paths. And placing congestion control at the intermediate nodes can elevate the load can elevate the load on the hand node. However, have you considered a scenario where multiple downstream notes send the congestion notification back simultaneously and receive it at the same upstream node? Could this lead to increased load or excessive congestion control on one of the upstream nodes? focus on the SRA six parts and the the the we that the the consenting control notification just notified one one hop by one hope I don't understand why why you say that the multi multiple downstream nodes maybe repeat your question This scenario only for one specific upstream node is there only one downstream node. So you mean there is no possibility that multiple downstream nodes send the congestion notification message to the upstream nose simultaneously? Every downstream node only send the notification to the upstream node directly directly adjuster to itself. Okay, I understand. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you. So given kind of focus and amount of work spent on ADC, I think we should be considering interim before Vienna. There's a lot of activities, lot of changes, so we'll notify you accordingly. So for today's meeting, we have finished all the presentations on the agenda ahead of time. So this, we have finished all the presentations on the agenda ahead of time. So this, we did have a small buffer, so now we have the open mic time. If you have any questions, comments to the working group, or any future discussion topics, please speak up. Wake up, it's just Thursday. So thank you everyone for attending, and we'll see in Vienna, or hopefully, on interim, sometime in between. Thanks to David for taking the notes. For people who's in between. at the mic, please check the notes to make sure your comments were correctly recorded. And we'll see you in Vienna. If you have some idea for interim or something, talk to us. Thank you. And there's an fascinating discussion on the list. I mean, not on the list on the chat. I think we should bring it to the list and continue there. It's a lot of really good points. And I mean, a lot of us have been long enough to have seen similar stuff long ago. So please continue on the list. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you